1	adjudicated	2	Four days will quickly steep themselves in night; Four nights will quickly dream away the time; And then the moon, like to a silver bow New-bent in heaven, shall behold the night Of our solemnities. 
2	adjudicated	0	Happy be Theseus, our renowned duke! 
3	adjudicated	0	Thanks, good Egeus: what's the news with thee? 
4	adjudicated	2	What say you, Hermia? be advis'd, fair maid. To you, your father should be as a god; One that compos'd your beauties, yea, and one To whom you are but as a form in wax By him imprinted, and within his power To leave the figure or disfigure it. Demetrius is a worthy gentleman. 
5	adjudicated	0	So is Lysander.
6	adjudicated	0	In himself he is; But, in this kind, wanting your father's voice, The other must be held the worthier. 
7	adjudicated	1	I would my father look'd but with my eyes.
8	adjudicated	1	Rather your eyes must with his judgment look.
9	adjudicated	0	I do entreat your Grace to pardon me. I know not by what power I am made bold, Nor how it may concern my modesty In such a presence here to plead my thoughts; But I beseech your Grace, that I may know The worst that may befall me in this case, If I refuse to wed Demetrius. 
10	adjudicated	3	Either to die the death, or to abjure For ever the society of men. Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires; Know of your youth, examine well your blood, Whe'r, if you yield not to your father's choice, You can endure the livery of a nun, For aye to be in shady cloister mew'd, To live a barren sister all your life, Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon. Thrice blessed they that master so their blood, To undergo such maiden pilgrimage; But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd, Than that which withering on the virgin thorn Grows, lives, and dies, in single blessedness. 
11	adjudicated	1	So will I grow, so live, so die, my lord, Ere I will yield my virgin patent up Unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke My soul consents not to give sovereignty. 
12	adjudicated	14	Take time to pause; and, by the next new moon,— The sealing-day betwixt my love and me For everlasting bond of fellowship,— Upon that day either prepare to die For disobedience to your father's will, Or else to wed Demetrius, as he would; Or on Diana's altar to protest For aye austerity and single life. 
13	adjudicated	0	Relent, sweet Hermia; and, Lysander, yield Thy crazed title to my certain right. 
14	adjudicated	0	You have her father's love, Demetrius; Let me have Hermia's: do you marry him. 
15	adjudicated	0	Scornful Lysander! true, he hath my love, And what is mine my love shall render him; And she is mine, and all my right of her I do estate unto Demetrius. 
16	adjudicated	1	I am, my lord, as well deriv'd as he, As well possess'd; my love is more than his; My fortunes every way as fairly rank'd If not with vantage, as Demetrius'; And, which is more than all these boasts can be, I am belov'd of beauteous Hermia. Why should not I then prosecute my right? Demetrius, I'll avouch it to his head, Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena, And won her soul; and she, sweet lady, dotes, Devoutly dotes, dotes in idolatry, Upon this spotted and inconstant man. 
17	adjudicated	0	I must confess that I have heard so much, And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof; But, being over-full of self-affairs, My mind did lose it. But, Demetrius, come; And come, Egeus; you shall go with me, I have some private schooling for you both. For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself To fit your fancies to your father's will, Or else the law of Athens yields you up, Which by no means we may extenuate, To death, or to a vow of single life. Come, my Hippolyta: what cheer, my love? Demetrius and Egeus, go along: I must employ you in some business Against our nuptial, and confer with you Of something nearly that concerns yourselves. 
18	adjudicated	0	With duty and desire we follow you.
19	adjudicated	1	How now, my love! Why is your cheek so pale? How chance the roses there do fade so fast? 
20	adjudicated	1	Belike for want of rain, which I could well Beteem them from the tempest of mine eyes. 
21	adjudicated	1	Ay me! for aught that ever I could read, Could ever hear by tale or history, The course of true love never did run smooth; But, either it was different in blood,— 
22	adjudicated	9	O cross! too high to be enthrall'd to low.
23	adjudicated	0	Or else misgraffed in respect of years,— 
24	adjudicated	0	O spite! too old to be engag'd to young.
25	adjudicated	0	Or else it stood upon the choice of friends,— 
26	adjudicated	1	O hell! to choose love by another's eye.
27	adjudicated	2	Or, if there were a sympathy in choice, War, death, or sickness did lay siege to it, Making it momentany as a sound, Swift as a shadow, short as any dream, Brief as the lightning in the collied night, That, in a spleen, unfolds both heaven and earth, And ere a man hath power to say, 'Behold!' The jaws of darkness do devour it up: So quick bright things come to confusion. 
28	adjudicated	1	If then true lovers have been ever cross'd, It stands as an edict in destiny: Then let us teach our trial patience, Because it is a customary cross, As due to love as thoughts and dreams and sighs, Wishes and tears, poor fancy's followers. 
29	adjudicated	0	A good persuasion: therefore, hear me, Hermia. I have a widow aunt, a dowager Of great revenue, and she hath no child: From Athens is her house remote seven leagues; And she respects me as her only son. There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee, And to that place the sharp Athenian law Cannot pursue us. If thou lov'st me then, Steal forth thy father's house to-morrow night, And in the wood, a league without the town, Where I did meet thee once with Helena, To do observance to a morn of May, There will I stay for thee. 
30	adjudicated	14	My good Lysander! I swear to thee by Cupid's strongest bow, By his best arrow with the golden head, By the simplicity of Venus' doves, By that which knitteth souls and prospers loves, And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage queen, When the false Troyan under sail was seen, By all the vows that ever men have broke,— In number more than ever women spoke,— In that same place thou hast appointed me, To-morrow truly will I meet with thee. 
31	adjudicated	0	Keep promise, love. Look, here comes Helena. 
32	adjudicated	0	God speed fair Helena! Whither away?
33	adjudicated	1	Call you me fair? that fair again unsay. Demetrius loves your fair: O happy fair! Your eyes are lode-stars! and your tongue's sweet air More tuneable than lark to shepherd's ear, When wheat is green, when hawthorn buds appear. Sickness is catching: O! were favour so, Yours would I catch, fair Hermia, ere I go; My ear should catch your voice, my eye your eye, My tongue should catch your tongue's sweet melody. Were the world mine, Demetrius being bated, The rest I'd give to be to you translated. O! teach me how you look, and with what art You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart. 
34	adjudicated	0	I frown upon him, yet he loves me still. 
35	adjudicated	3	O! that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill.
36	adjudicated	0	I give him curses, yet he gives me love. 
37	adjudicated	1	O! that my prayers could such affection move.
38	adjudicated	0	The more I hate, the more he follows me. 
39	adjudicated	0	The more I love, the more he hateth me. 
40	adjudicated	0	His folly, Helena, is no fault of mine. 
41	adjudicated	1	None, but your beauty: would that fault were mine! 
42	adjudicated	1	Take comfort: he no more shall see my face; Lysander and myself will fly this place. Before the time I did Lysander see, Seem'd Athens as a paradise to me: O! then, what graces in my love do dwell, That he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell. 
43	adjudicated	3	Helen, to you our minds we will unfold. To-morrow night, when Phœbe doth behold Her silver visage in the wat'ry glass, Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass,— A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal,— Through Athens' gates have we devis'd to steal. 
44	adjudicated	1	And in the wood, where often you and I Upon faint primrose-beds were wont to lie, Emptying our bosoms of their counsel sweet, There my Lysander and myself shall meet; And thence from Athens turn away our eyes, To seek new friends and stranger companies. Farewell, sweet playfellow: pray thou for us; And good luck grant thee thy Demetrius! Keep word, Lysander: we must starve our sight From lovers' food till morrow deep midnight. 
45	adjudicated	0	As you on him, Demetrius dote on you! 
46	adjudicated	1	How happy some o'er other some can be! Through Athens I am thought as fair as she; But what of that? Demetrius thinks not so; He will not know what all but he do know; And as he errs, doting on Hermia's eyes, So I, admiring of his qualities. Things base and vile, holding no quantity, Love can transpose to form and dignity. Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind, And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind. Nor hath Love's mind of any judgment taste; Wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste: And therefore is Love said to be a child, Because in choice he is so oft beguil'd. As waggish boys in game themselves forswear, So the boy Love is perjur'd every where; For ere Demetrius look'd on Hermia's eyne, He hail'd down oaths that he was only mine; And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt, So he dissolv'd, and showers of oaths did melt. I will go tell him of fair Hermia's flight: Then to the wood will he to-morrow night Pursue her; and for this intelligence If I have thanks, it is a dear expense: But herein mean I to enrich my pain, To have his sight thither and back again. 
47	adjudicated	0	Is all our company here?
48	adjudicated	0	You were best to call them generally, man by man, according to the scrip. 
49	adjudicated	0	Here is the scroll of every man's name, which is thought fit, through all Athens, to play in our interlude before the duke and the duchess on his wedding-day at night. 
50	adjudicated	0	First, good Peter Quince, say what the play treats on; then read the names of the actors, and so grow to a point. 
51	adjudicated	11	Marry, our play is, The most lamentable comedy, and most cruel death of Pyramus and Thisby. 
52	adjudicated	0	A very good piece of work, I assure you, and a merry. Now, good Peter Quince, call forth your actors by the scroll. Masters, spread yourselves. 
53	adjudicated	0	Answer as I call you. Nick Bottom, the weaver. 
54	adjudicated	0	Ready. Name what part I am for, and proceed. 
55	adjudicated	0	You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus. 
56	adjudicated	0	What is Pyramus? a lover, or a tyrant? 
57	adjudicated	0	A lover, that kills himself most gallantly for love. 
58	adjudicated	4	That will ask some tears in the true performing of it: if I do it, let the audience look to their eyes; I will move storms, I will condole in some measure. To the rest: yet my chief humour is for a tyrant. I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to tear a cat in, to make all split. 
59	adjudicated	3	The raging rocks And shivering shocks Shall break the locks Of prison gates: And Phibbus' car Shall shine from far And make and mar The foolish Fates.
60	adjudicated	0	This was lofty! Now name the rest of the players. This is Ercles' vein, a tyrant's vein; a lover is more condoling. 
61	adjudicated	0	Francis Flute, the bellows-mender. 
62	adjudicated	0	Here, Peter Quince. 
63	adjudicated	0	You must take Thisby on you.
64	adjudicated	1	What is Thisby? a wandering knight?
65	adjudicated	0	It is the lady that Pyramus must love.
66	adjudicated	0	Nay, faith, let not me play a woman; I have a beard coming. 
67	adjudicated	0	That's all one: you shall play it in a mask, and you may speak as small as you will. 
68	adjudicated	8	An I may hide my face, let me play Thisby too. I'll speak in a monstrous little voice, 'Thisne, Thisne!' 'Ah, Pyramus, my lover dear; thy Thisby dear, and lady dear!' 
69	adjudicated	0	No, no; you must play Pyramus; and Flute, you Thisby. 
70	adjudicated	0	Well, proceed. 
71	adjudicated	0	Robin Starveling, the tailor. 
72	adjudicated	0	Here, Peter Quince. 
73	adjudicated	0	Robin Starveling, you must play Thisby's mother. Tom Snout, the tinker. 
74	adjudicated	0	Here, Peter Quince. 
75	adjudicated	0	You, Pyramus's father; myself, Thisby's father; Snug, the joiner, you the lion's part: and, I hope, here is a play fitted. 
76	adjudicated	0	Have you the lion's part written? pray you, if it be, give it me, for I am slow of study. 
77	adjudicated	0	You may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring. 
78	adjudicated	4	Let me play the lion too. I will roar, that I will do any man's heart good to hear me; I will roar, that I will make the duke say, 'Let him roar again, let him roar again.' 
79	adjudicated	4	An you should do it too terribly, you would fright the duchess and the ladies, that they would shriek; and that were enough to hang us all. 
80	adjudicated	0	That would hang us, every mother's son. 
81	adjudicated	2	I grant you, friends, if that you should fright the ladies out of their wits, they would have no more discretion but to hang us; but I will aggravate my voice so that I will roar you as gently as any sucking dove; I will roar you as 'twere any nightingale. 
82	adjudicated	0	You can play no part but Pyramus; for Pyramus is a sweet-faced man; a proper man, as one shall see in a summer's day; a most lovely, gentleman-like man; therefore, you must needs play Pyramus. 
83	adjudicated	0	Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best to play it in? 
84	adjudicated	0	Why, what you will. 
85	adjudicated	0	I will discharge it in either your straw-colour beard, your orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain beard, or your French-crown colour beard, your perfect yellow. 
86	adjudicated	10	Some of your French crowns have no hair at all, and then you will play bare-faced. But masters, here are your parts; and I am to entreat you, request you, and desire you, to con them by to-morrow night, and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without the town, by moonlight: there will we rehearse; for if we meet in the city, we shall be dogged with company, and our devices known. In the meantime I will draw a bill of properties, such as our play wants. I pray you, fail me not. 
87	adjudicated	0	We will meet; and there we may rehearse more obscenely and courageously. Take pains; be perfect; adieu.
88	adjudicated	0	At the duke's oak we meet.
89	adjudicated	1	Enough; hold, or cut bow-strings. 
90	adjudicated	0	How now, spirit! whither wander you? 
91	adjudicated	3	Over hill, over dale, Thorough bush, thorough brier, Over park, over pale, Thorough flood, thorough fire, I do wander every where, Swifter than the moone's sphere; And I serve the fairy queen, To dew her orbs upon the green: The cowslips tall her pensioners be; In their gold coats spots you see; Those be rubies, fairy favours, In their freckles live their savours: 
92	adjudicated	3	I must go seek some dew-drops here, And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear. Farewell, thou lob of spirits: I'll be gone; Our queen and all her elves come here anon. 
93	adjudicated	12	The king doth keep his revels here to-night. Take heed the queen come not within his sight; For Oberon is passing fell and wrath, Because that she as her attendant hath A lovely boy, stol'n from an Indian king; She never had so sweet a changeling; And jealous Oberon would have the child Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild; But she, perforce, withholds the loved boy, Crowns him with flowers, and makes him all her joy. And now they never meet in grove, or green, By fountain clear, or spangled starlight sheen, But they do square; that all their elves, for fear, Creep into acorn-cups and hide them there. 
94	adjudicated	3	Either I mistake your shape and making quite, Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite Call'd Robin Goodfellow: are you not he That frights the maidens of the villagery; Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern, And bootless make the breathless housewife churn; And sometime make the drink to bear no barm; Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm? Those that Hobgoblin call you and sweet Puck, You do their work, and they shall have good luck: Are you not he? 
95	adjudicated	1	Fairy, thou speak'st aright; I am that merry wanderer of the night. I jest to Oberon, and make him smile When I a fat and bean-fed horse beguile, Neighing in likeness of a filly foal: And sometime lurk I in a gossip's bowl, In very likeness of a roasted crab; And, when she drinks, against her lips I bob And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale. The wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale, Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me; Then slip I from her bum, down topples she, And 'tailor' cries, and falls into a cough; And then the whole quire hold their hips and loff; And waxen in their mirth, and neeze, and swear A merrier hour was never wasted there. But, room, fairy! here comes Oberon. 
96	adjudicated	0	And here my mistress. Would that he were gone!
97	adjudicated	0	Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania. 
98	adjudicated	0	What! jealous Oberon. Fairies, skip hence: I have forsworn his bed and company. 
99	adjudicated	0	Tarry, rash wanton! am not I thy lord? 
100	adjudicated	1	Then, I must be thy lady; but I know When thou hast stol'n away from fairy land, And in the shape of Corin sat all day, Playing on pipes of corn, and versing love To amorous Phillida. Why art thou here, Come from the furthest steppe of India? But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon, Your buskin'd mistress and your warrior love, To Theseus must be wedded, and you come To give their bed joy and prosperity. 
101	adjudicated	14	How canst thou thus for shame, Titania, Glance at my credit with Hippolyta, Knowing I know thy love to Theseus? Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night From Perigouna, whom he ravished? And make him with fair Ægle break his faith, With Ariadne, and Antiopa? 
102	adjudicated	3	These are the forgeries of jealousy: And never, since the middle summer's spring, Met we on hill, in dale, forest, or mead, By paved fountain, or by rushy brook, Or in the beached margent of the sea, To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind, But with thy brawls thou hast disturb'd our sport. Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain, As in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea Contagious fogs; which, falling in the land, Have every pelting river made so proud That they have overborne their continents: The ox hath therefore stretch'd his yoke in vain, The ploughman lost his sweat, and the green corn Hath rotted ere his youth attain'd a beard: The fold stands empty in the drowned field, And crows are fatted with the murrion flock; The nine men's morris is fill'd up with mud, And the quaint mazes in the wanton green For lack of tread are undistinguishable: The human mortals want their winter here: No night is now with hymn or carol blest: Therefore the moon, the governess of floods, Pale in her anger, washes all the air, That rheumatic diseases do abound: And thorough this distemperature we see The seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts Fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose, And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds Is, as in mockery, set. The spring, the summer, The childing autumn, angry winter, change Their wonted liveries, and the mazed world, By their increase, now knows not which is which. And this same progeny of evil comes From our debate, from our dissension: We are their parents and original. 
103	adjudicated	11	Do you amend it then; it lies in you. Why should Titania cross her Oberon? I do but beg a little changeling boy, To be my henchman. 
104	adjudicated	1	Set your heart at rest; The fairy land buys not the child of me. His mother was a votaress of my order: And, in the spiced Indian air, by night, Full often hath she gossip'd by my side, And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands, Marking the embarked traders on the flood; When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind; Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait Following,—her womb then rich with my young squire,— Would imitate, and sail upon the land, To fetch me trifles, and return again, As from a voyage, rich with merchandise. But she, being mortal, of that boy did die; And for her sake I do rear up her boy, And for her sake I will not part with him. 
105	adjudicated	0	How long within this wood intend you stay?
106	adjudicated	0	Perchance, till after Theseus' weddingday. If you will patiently dance in our round, And see our moonlight revels, go with us; If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts. 
107	adjudicated	0	Give me that boy, and I will go with thee. 
108	adjudicated	0	Not for thy fairy kingdom. Fairies, away! We shall chide downright, if I longer stay. 
109	adjudicated	1	Well, go thy way: thou shalt not from this grove Till I torment thee for this injury. My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou remember'st Since once I sat upon a promontory, And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath, That the rude sea grew civil at her song, And certain stars shot madly from their spheres To hear the sea-maid's music. 
110	adjudicated	0	I remember.
111	adjudicated	1	That very time I saw, but thou couldst not, Flying between the cold moon and the earth, Cupid all arm'd: a certain aim he took At a fair vestal throned by the west, And loos'd his love-shaft smartly from his bow, As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts; But I might see young Cupid's fiery shaft Quench'd in the chaste beams of the wat'ry moon, And the imperial votaress passed on, In maiden meditation, fancy-free. Yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell: It fell upon a little western flower, Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound, And maidens call it, Love-in-idleness. Fetch me that flower; the herb I show'd thee once: The juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid Will make or man or woman madly dote Upon the next live creature that it sees. Fetch me this herb; and be thou here again Ere the leviathan can swim a league. 
112	adjudicated	4	I'll put a girdle round about the earth In forty minutes.
113	adjudicated	0	Having once this juice I'll watch Titania when she is asleep, And drop the liquor of it in her eyes: The next thing then she waking looks upon, Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull, On meddling monkey, or on busy ape, She shall pursue it with the soul of love: And ere I take this charm off from her sight, As I can take it with another herb, I'll make her render up her page to me. But who comes here? I am invisible, And I will overhear their conference. 
114	adjudicated	1	I love thee not, therefore pursue me not. Where is Lysander and fair Hermia? The one I'll slay, the other slayeth me. Thou told'st me they were stol'n into this wood; And here am I, and wood within this wood, Because I cannot meet my Hermia. Hence! get thee gone, and follow me no more. 
115	adjudicated	1	You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant: But yet you draw not iron, for my heart Is true as steel: leave you your power to draw, And I shall have no power to follow you. 
116	adjudicated	1	Do I entice you? Do I speak you fair? Or, rather, do I not in plainest truth Tell you I do not nor I cannot love you? 
117	adjudicated	2	And even for that do I love you the more. I am your spaniel; and, Demetrius, The more you beat me, I will fawn on you: Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me, Neglect me, lose me; only give me leave, Unworthy as I am, to follow you. What worser place can I beg in your love, And yet a place of high respect with me, Than to be used as you use your dog? 
118	adjudicated	0	Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit, For I am sick when I do look on you. 
119	adjudicated	0	And I am sick when I look not on you.
120	adjudicated	0	You do impeach your modesty too much, To leave the city, and commit yourself Into the hands of one that loves you not; To trust the opportunity of night And the ill counsel of a desert place With the rich worth of your virginity. 
121	adjudicated	1	Your virtue is my privilege: for that It is not night when I do see your face, Therefore I think I am not in the night; Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company, For you in my respect are all the world: Then how can it be said I am alone, When all the world is here to look on me? 
122	adjudicated	14	I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes, And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts. 
123	adjudicated	13	The wildest hath not such a heart as you. Run when you will, the story shall be chang'd; Apollo flies, and Daphne holds the chase; The dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind Makes speed to catch the tiger: bootless speed, When cowardice pursues and valour flies. 
124	adjudicated	1	I will not stay thy questions: let me go; Or, if thou follow me, do not believe But I shall do thee mischief in the wood. 
125	adjudicated	1	Ay, in the temple, in the town, the field, You do me mischief. Fie, Demetrius! Your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex. We cannot fight for love, as men may do; We should be woo'd and were not made to woo. 
126	adjudicated	1	I'll follow thee and make a heaven of hell, To die upon the hand I love so well. 
127	adjudicated	11	Fare thee well, nymph: ere he do leave this grove, Thou shalt fly him, and he shall seek thy love. 
128	adjudicated	0	Hast thou the flower there? Welcome, wanderer. 
129	adjudicated	0	Ay, there it is. 
130	adjudicated	0	I pray thee, give it me. I know a bank whereon the wild thyme blows, Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine, With sweet musk-roses, and with eglantine: There sleeps Titania some time of the night, Lull'd in these flowers with dances and delight; And there the snake throws her enamell'd skin, Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in: And with the juice of this I'll streak her eyes, And make her full of hateful fantasies. Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove: A sweet Athenian lady is in love With a disdainful youth: anoint his eyes; But do it when the next thing he espies May be the lady. Thou shalt know the man By the Athenian garments he hath on. Effect it with some care, that he may prove More fond on her than she upon her love. And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow. 
131	adjudicated	0	Fear not, my lord, your servant shall do so. 
132	adjudicated	6	Come, now a roundel and a fairy song; Then, for the third of a minute, hence; Some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds, Some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings, To make my small elves coats, and some keep back The clamorous owl, that nightly hoots, and wonders At our quaint spirits. Sing me now asleep; Then to your offices, and let me rest. 
133	adjudicated	6	The Fairies sing.
134	adjudicated	0	You spotted snakes with double tongue, Thorny hedge-hogs, be not seen; Newts, and blind-worms, do no wrong; Come not near our fairy queen. Philomel, with melody, Sing in our sweet lullaby: Lulla, lulla, lullaby; lulla, lulla, lullaby: Never harm, Nor spell, nor charm, Come our lovely lady nigh; So, good night, with lullaby. 
135	adjudicated	0	Weaving spiders come not here; Hence, you long-legg'd spinners, hence! Beetles black, approach not near; Worm nor snail, do no offence. Philomel, with melody, &c. 
136	adjudicated	0	Hence, away! now all is well. One aloof stand sentinel. 
137	adjudicated	1	What thou seest when thou dost wake, Do it for thy true-love take; Love and languish for his sake: Be it ounce, or cat, or bear, Pard, or boar with bristled hair, In thy eye that shall appear When thou wak'st, it is thy dear. Wake when some vile thing is near. 
138	adjudicated	0	Fair love, you faint with wandering in the wood; And to speak troth, I have forgot our way: We'll rest us, Hermia, if you think it good, And tarry for the comfort of the day. 
139	adjudicated	0	Be it so, Lysander: find you out a bed, For I upon this bank will rest my head. 
140	adjudicated	0	One turf shall serve as pillow for us both; One heart, one bed, two bosoms, and one troth. 
141	adjudicated	1	Nay, good Lysander; for my sake, my dear, Lie further off yet, do not lie so near. 
142	adjudicated	1	O! take the sense, sweet, of my innocence, Love takes the meaning in love's conference. I mean that my heart unto yours is knit, So that but one heart we can make of it; Two bosoms interchained with an oath; So then two bosoms and a single troth. Then by your side no bed-room me deny, For, lying so, Hermia, I do not lie. 
143	adjudicated	0	Lysander riddles very prettily: Now much beshrew my manners and my pride, If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied. But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy Lie further off; in human modesty, Such separation as may well be said Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid, So far be distant; and, good night, sweet friend. Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end! 
144	adjudicated	0	Amen, amen, to that fair prayer, say I; And then end life when I end loyalty! 
145	adjudicated	0	Here is my bed: sleep give thee all his rest!
146	adjudicated	0	With half that wish the wisher's eyes be press'd!
147	adjudicated	3	Through the forest have I gone, But Athenian found I none, On whose eyes I might approve This flower's force in stirring love. Night and silence! who is here? Weeds of Athens he doth wear: This is he, my master said, Despised the Athenian maid; And here the maiden, sleeping sound, On the dank and dirty ground. Pretty soul! she durst not lie Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy. 
148	adjudicated	0	Churl, upon thy eyes I throw All the power this charm doth owe. When thou wak'st, let love forbid Sleep his seat on thy eyelid: So awake when I am gone; For I must now to Oberon. 
149	adjudicated	0	Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius. 
150	adjudicated	0	I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus. 
151	adjudicated	0	O! wilt thou darkling leave me? do not so.
152	adjudicated	0	Stay, on thy peril: I alone will go. 
153	adjudicated	1	O! I am out of breath in this fond chase. The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace. Happy is Hermia, wheresoe'er she lies; For she hath blessed and attractive eyes. How came her eyes so bright? Not with salt tears: If so, my eyes are oftener wash'd than hers. No, no, I am as ugly as a bear; For beasts that meet me run away for fear; Therefore no marvel though Demetrius Do, as a monster, fly my presence thus. What wicked and dissembling glass of mine Made me compare with Hermia's sphery eyne? But who is here? Lysander! on the ground! Dead? or asleep? I see no blood, no wound. Lysander, if you live, good sir, awake. 
154	adjudicated	1	Transparent Helena! Nature shows art, That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart. Where is Demetrius? O! how fit a word Is that vile name to perish on my sword. 
155	adjudicated	1	Do not say so, Lysander; say not so. What though he love your Hermia? Lord! what though? Yet Hermia still loves you: then be content. 
156	adjudicated	1	Content with Hermia! No: I do repent The tedious minutes I with her have spent. Not Hermia, but Helena I love: Who will not change a raven for a dove? The will of man is by his reason sway'd, And reason says you are the worthier maid. Things growing are not ripe until their season; So I, being young, till now ripe not to reason; And touching now the point of human skill, Reason becomes the marshal to my will, And leads me to your eyes; where I o'erlook Love's stories written in love's richest book. 
157	adjudicated	1	Wherefore was I to this keen mockery born? When at your hands did I deserve this scorn? Is't not enough, is't not enough, young man, That I did never, no, nor never can, Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye, But you must flout my insufficiency? Good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do, In such disdainful manner me to woo. But fare you well: perforce I must confess I thought you lord of more true gentleness. O! that a lady of one man refus'd, Should of another therefore be abus'd. 
158	adjudicated	1	She sees not Hermia. Hermia, sleep thou there; And never mayst thou come Lysander near. For, as a surfeit of the sweetest things The deepest loathing to the stomach brings; Or, as the heresies that men do leave Are hated most of those they did deceive: So thou, my surfeit and my heresy, Of all be hated, but the most of me! And, all my powers, address your love and might To honour Helen, and to be her knight. 
159	adjudicated	1	To pluck this crawling serpent from my breast. Ay me, for pity! what a dream was here! Lysander, look how I do quake with fear: Methought a serpent eat my heart away, And you sat smiling at his cruel prey. Lysander! what! remov'd?—Lysander! lord! What! out of hearing? gone? no sound, no word? Alack! where are you? speak, an if you hear; Speak, of all loves! I swound almost with fear. No! then I well perceive you are not nigh: Either death or you I'll find immediately. 
160	adjudicated	0	Are we all met?
161	adjudicated	0	Pat, pat; and here's a marvellous convenient place for our rehearsal. This green plot shall be our stage, this hawthorn-brake our tiring-house; and we will do it in action as we will do it before the duke. 
162	adjudicated	0	Peter Quince,— 
163	adjudicated	0	What sayst thou, bully Bottom? 
164	adjudicated	4	There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisby that will never please. First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself, which the ladies cannot abide. How answer you that? 
165	adjudicated	0	By'r lakin, a parlous fear. 
166	adjudicated	0	I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done. 
167	adjudicated	14	Not a whit: I have a device to make all well. Write me a prologue; and let the prologue seem to say, we will do no harm with our swords, and that Pyramus is not killed indeed; and, for the more better assurance, tell them that I, Pyramus, am not Pyramus, but Bottom the weaver: this will put them out of fear. 
168	adjudicated	0	Well, we will have such a prologue, and it shall be written in eight and six. 
169	adjudicated	0	No, make it two more: let it be written in eight and eight. 
170	adjudicated	0	Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion?
171	adjudicated	0	I fear it, I promise you. 
172	adjudicated	0	Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves: to bring in,—God shield us!—a lion among ladies, is a most dreadful thing; for there is not a more fearful wild-fowl than your lion living, and we ought to look to it. 
173	adjudicated	0	Therefore, another prologue must tell he is not a lion. 
174	adjudicated	2	Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck; and he himself must speak through, saying thus, or to the same defect, 'Ladies,' or, 'Fair ladies,' 'I would wish you,' or, 'I would request you,' or, 'I would entreat you, not to fear, not to tremble: my life for yours. If you think I come hither as a lion, it were pity of my life: no, I am no such thing: I am a man as other men are;' and there indeed let him name his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner. 
175	adjudicated	12	Well, it shall be so. But there is two hard things, that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for, you know, Pyramus and Thisby meet by moonlight. 
176	adjudicated	8	Doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
177	adjudicated	8	A calendar, a calendar! look in the almanack; find out moonshine, find out moonshine. 
178	adjudicated	0	Yes, it doth shine that night. 
179	adjudicated	0	Why, then may you leave a casement of the great chamber-window, where we play, open; and the moon may shine in at the casement. 
180	adjudicated	0	Ay; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a lanthorn, and say he comes to disfigure, or to present, the person of Moonshine. Then, there is another thing: we must have a wall in the great chamber; for Pyramus and Thisby, says the story, did talk through the chink of a wall. 
181	adjudicated	4	You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom? 
182	adjudicated	14	Some man or other must present Wall; and let him have some plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast about him, to signify wall; and let him hold his fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus and Thisby whisper. 
183	adjudicated	0	If that may be, than all is well. Come, sit down, every mother's son, and rehearse your parts. Pyramus, you begin: when you have spoken your speech, enter into that brake; and so every one according to his cue. 
184	adjudicated	11	What hempen home-spuns have we swaggering here, So near the cradle of the fairy queen? What! a play toward; I'll be an auditor; An actor too perhaps, if I see cause. 
185	adjudicated	0	Speak, Pyramus.—Thisby, stand forth. 
186	adjudicated	9	Thisby, the flowers have odious savours sweet,— 
187	adjudicated	7	Odorous, odorous. 
188	adjudicated	3	—odours savours sweet: So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear. But hark, a voice! stay thou but here awhile, And by and by I will to thee appear. 
189	adjudicated	0	A stranger Pyramus than e'er play'd here!
190	adjudicated	0	Must I speak now?
191	adjudicated	0	Ay, marry, must you; for you must understand, he goes but to see a noise that he heard, and is to come again. 
192	adjudicated	1	Most radiant Pyramus, most lily-white of hue, Of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier, Most brisky juvenal, and eke most lovely Jew, As true as truest horse that yet would never tire, I'll meet thee, Pyramus, at Ninny's tomb. 
193	adjudicated	14	'Ninus' tomb,' man. Why, you must not speak that yet; that you answer to Pyramus: you speak all your part at once, cues and all. Pyramus, enter: your cue is past; it is 'never tire.' 
194	adjudicated	2	O!—As true as truest horse, that yet would never tire. 
195	adjudicated	0	If I were, fair Thisby, I were only thine. 
196	adjudicated	1	O monstrous! O strange! we are haunted. Pray, masters! fly, masters!—Help! 
197	adjudicated	1	I'll follow you, I'll lead you about a round, Through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier: Sometime a horse I'll be, sometime a hound, A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire; And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn, Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn. 
198	adjudicated	0	Why do they run away? this is a knavery of them to make me afeard.
199	adjudicated	0	O Bottom, thou art changed! what do I see on thee? 
200	adjudicated	1	What do you see? you see an ass-head of your own, do you? 
201	adjudicated	0	Bless thee, Bottom! bless thee! thou art translated. 
202	adjudicated	1	I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me; to fright me, if they could. But I will not stir from this place, do what they can: I will walk up and down here, and I will sing, that they shall hear I am not afraid. 
203	adjudicated	1	The ousel-cock, so black of hue, With orange-tawny bill, The throstle with his note so true, The wren with little quill. 
204	adjudicated	0	The finch, the sparrow, and the lark, The plain-song cuckoo gray, Whose note full many a man doth mark, And dares not answer, nay; 
205	adjudicated	0	for indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish a bird? who would give a bird the lie, though he cry 'cuckoo' never so? 
206	adjudicated	0	I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again: Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note; So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape; And thy fair virtue's force, perforce, doth move me, On the first view, to say, to swear, I love thee. 
207	adjudicated	0	Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason for that: and yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company together now-a-days. The more the pity, that some honest neighbours will not make them friends. Nay, I can gleek upon occasion. 
208	adjudicated	2	Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
209	adjudicated	0	Not so, neither; but if I had wit enough to get out of this wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn. 
210	adjudicated	1	Out of this wood do not desire to go: Thou shalt remain here, whe'r thou wilt or no. I am a spirit of no common rate; The summer still doth tend upon my state; And I do love thee: therefore, go with me; I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee, And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep, And sing, while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep: And I will purge thy mortal grossness so That thou shalt like an airy spirit go. Pease-blossom! Cobweb! Moth! and Mustardseed! 
211	adjudicated	0	And I.
212	adjudicated	0	Where shall we go?
213	adjudicated	3	Be kind and courteous to this gentleman; Hop in his walks, and gambol in his eyes; Feed him with apricocks and dewberries, With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries. The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees, And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs, And light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes, To have my love to bed, and to arise; And pluck the wings from painted butterflies To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes: Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies. 
214	adjudicated	0	Hail, mortal! 
215	adjudicated	0	Hail!
216	adjudicated	0	I cry your worships mercy, heartily: I beseech your worship's name. 
217	adjudicated	0	Cobweb.
218	adjudicated	0	I shall desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Cobweb: if I out my finger, I shall make bold with you. Your name, honest gentleman? 
219	adjudicated	0	Pease-blossom.
220	adjudicated	0	I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your mother, and to Master Peascod, your father. Good Master Pease-blossom, I shall desire you of more acquaintance too. Your name, I beseech you, sir? 
221	adjudicated	0	Mustard-seed.
222	adjudicated	1	Good Master Mustard-seed, I know your patience well: that same cowardly, giant-like ox-beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house. I promise you, your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now. I desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Mustard-seed. 
223	adjudicated	3	Come, wait upon him; lead him to my bower. The moon methinks, looks with a watery eye; And when she weeps, weeps every little flower, Lamenting some enforced chastity. Tie up my love's tongue, bring him silently. 
224	adjudicated	0	I wonder if Titania be awak'd; Then, what it was that next came in her eye, Which she must dote on in extremity. Here comes my messenger. 
225	adjudicated	1	How now, mad spirit! 
226	adjudicated	0	What night-rule now about this haunted grove?
227	adjudicated	1	My mistress with a monster is in love. Near to her close and consecrated bower, While she was in her dull and sleeping hour, A crew of patches, rude mechanicals, That work for bread upon Athenian stalls, Were met together to rehearse a play Intended for great Theseus' nuptial day. The shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort, Who Pyramus presented in their sport Forsook his scene, and enter'd in a brake, When I did him at this advantage take; An ass's nowl I fixed on his head: Anon his Thisbe must be answered, And forth my mimick comes. When they him spy, As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye, Or russet-pated choughs, many in sort, Rising and cawing at the gun's report, Sever themselves, and madly sweep the sky; So, at his sight, away his fellows fly, And, at our stamp, here o'er and o'er one falls; He murder cries, and help from Athens calls. Their sense thus weak, lost with their fears thus strong, Made senseless things begin to do them wrong; For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch; Some sleeves, some hats, from yielders all things catch. I led them on in this distracted fear, And left sweet Pyramus translated there; When in that moment, so it came to pass, Titania wak'd and straightway lov'd an ass. 
228	adjudicated	1	This falls out better than I could devise. But hast thou yet latch'd the Athenian's eyes With the love-juice, as I did bid thee do? 
229	adjudicated	0	I took him sleeping,—that is finish'd too,— And the Athenian woman by his side; That, when he wak'd, of force she must be ey'd. 
230	adjudicated	14	Stand close: this is the same Athenian.
231	adjudicated	0	This is the woman; but not this the man.
232	adjudicated	0	O! why rebuke you him that loves you so? Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe.
233	adjudicated	1	Now I but chide; but I should use thee worse, For thou, I fear, hast given me cause to curse. If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep, Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in knee deep, And kill me too. The sun was not so true unto the day As he to me. Would he have stol'n away From sleeping Hermia? I'll believe as soon This whole earth may be bor'd, and that the moon May through the centre creep, and so displease Her brother's noontide with the Antipodes. It cannot be but thou hast murder'd him; So should a murderer look, so dead, so grim. 
234	adjudicated	2	So should the murder'd look, and so should I, Pierc'd through the heart with your stern cruelty; Yet you, the murderer, look as bright, as clear, As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere. 
235	adjudicated	0	What's this to my Lysander? where is he? Ah! good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me? 
236	adjudicated	0	I had rather give his carcass to my hounds.
237	adjudicated	0	Out, dog! out, cur! thou driv'st me past the bounds Of maiden's patience. Hast thou slain him then? Henceforth be never number'd among men! O! once tell true, tell true, e'en for my sake; Durst thou have look'd upon him being awake, And hast thou kill'd him sleeping? O brave touch! Could not a worm, an adder, do so much? An adder did it; for with doubler tongue Than thine, thou serpent, never adder stung. 
238	adjudicated	0	You spend your passion on a mispris'd mood: I am not guilty of Lysander's blood, Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell. 
239	adjudicated	0	I pray thee, tell me then that he is well. 
240	adjudicated	0	An if I could, what should I get therefore? 
241	adjudicated	3	A privilege never to see me more. And from thy hated presence part I so; See me no more, whe'r he be dead or no. 
242	adjudicated	0	There is no following her in this fierce vein: Here therefore for awhile I will remain. So sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow For debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe; Which now in some slight measure it will pay, If for his tender here I make some stay. 
243	adjudicated	1	What hast thou done? thou hast mistaken quite, And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight: Of thy misprision must perforce ensue Some true-love turn'd, and not a false turn'd true. 
244	adjudicated	4	Then fate o'er-rules, that, one man holding troth, A million fail, confounding oath on oath. 
245	adjudicated	2	About the wood go swifter than the wind, And Helena of Athens look thou find: All fancy-sick she is, and pale of cheer With sighs of love, that cost the fresh blood dear. By some illusion see thou bring her here: I'll charm his eyes against she do appear. 
246	adjudicated	7	I go, I go; look how I go; Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow. 
247	adjudicated	1	Flower of this purple dye, Hit with Cupid's archery, Sink in apple of his eye. When his love he doth espy, Let her shine as gloriously As the Venus of the sky. When thou wak'st, if she be by, Beg of her for remedy. 
248	adjudicated	0	Then will two at once woo one; That must needs be sport alone; And those things do best please me That befall preposterously.
249	adjudicated	1	Why should you think that I should woo in scorn? Scorn and derision never come in tears: Look, when I vow, I weep; and vows so born, In their nativity all truth appears. How can these things in me seem scorn to you, Bearing the badge of faith to prove them true? 
250	adjudicated	3	You do advance your cunning more and more. When truth kills truth, O devilish-holy fray! These vows are Hermia's: will you give her o'er? Weigh oath with oath, and you will nothing weigh: Your vows, to her and me, put in two scales, Will even weigh, and both as light as tales. 
251	adjudicated	0	I had no judgment when to her I swore.
252	adjudicated	0	Nor none, in my mind, now you give her o'er. 
253	adjudicated	0	Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you. 
254	adjudicated	1	To what, my love, shall I compare thine eyne? Crystal is muddy. O! how ripe in show Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow, This pure congealed white, high Taurus' snow, Fann'd with the eastern wind, turns to a crow When thou hold'st up thy hand. O! let me kiss That princess of pure white, this seal of bliss. 
255	adjudicated	13	O spite! O hell! I see you all are bent To set against me for your merriment: If you were civil and knew courtesy, You would not do me thus much injury. Can you not hate me, as I know you do, But you must join in souls to mock me too? If you were men, as men you are in show, You would not use a gentle lady so; To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts, When I am sure you hate me with your hearts. You both are rivals, and love Hermia, And now both rivals, to mock Helena: A trim exploit, a manly enterprise, To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes With your derision! none of noble sort Would so offend a virgin, and extort A poor soul's patience, all to make you sport. 
256	adjudicated	0	You are unkind, Demetrius; be not so; For you love Hermia; this you know I know: And here, with all good will, with all my heart, In Hermia's love I yield you up my part; And yours of Helena to me bequeath, Whom I do love, and will do to my death. 
257	adjudicated	0	Never did mockers waste more idle breath.
258	adjudicated	0	Lysander, keep thy Hermia; I will none: If e'er I lov'd her, all that love is gone. My heart with her but as guest wise sojourn'd, And now to Helen it is home return'd, There to remain. 
259	adjudicated	0	Helen, it is not so. 
260	adjudicated	0	Disparage not the faith thou dost not know, Lest to thy peril thou aby it dear. Look! where thy love comes: yonder is thy dear. 
261	adjudicated	3	Dark night, that from the eye his function takes, The ear more quick of apprehension makes; Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense, It pays the hearing double recompense. Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found; Mine ear, I thank it, brought me to thy sound. But why unkindly didst thou leave me so? 
262	adjudicated	0	Why should he stay, whom love doth press to go? 
263	adjudicated	3	What love could press Lysander from my side?
264	adjudicated	3	Lysander's love, that would not let him bide, Fair Helena, who more engilds the night Than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light. Why seek'st thou me? could not this make thee know, The hate I bear thee made me leave thee so? 
265	adjudicated	0	You speak not as you think: it cannot be.
266	adjudicated	2	Lo! she is one of this confederacy. Now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three To fashion this false sport in spite of me. Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid! Have you conspir'd, have you with these contriv'd To bait me with this foul derision? Is all the counsel that we two have shar'd, The sister-vows, the hours that we have spent, When we have chid the hasty-footed time For parting us, O! is it all forgot? All school-days' friendship, childhood innocence? We, Hermia, like two artificial gods, Have with our neelds created both one flower, Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion, Both warbling of one song, both in one key, As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds, Had been incorporate. So we grew together, Like to a double cherry, seeming parted, But yet an union in partition; Two lovely berries moulded on one stem; So, with two seeming bodies, but one heart; Two of the first, like coats in heraldry, Due but to one, and crowned with one crest. And will you rent our ancient love asunder, To join with men in scorning your poor friend? It is not friendly, 'tis not maidenly: Our sex, as well as I, may chide you for it, Though I alone do feel the injury. 
267	adjudicated	0	I am amazed at your passionate words. I scorn you not: it seems that you scorn me.
268	adjudicated	1	Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn, To follow me and praise my eyes and face, And made your other love, Demetrius,— Who even but now did spurn me with his foot,— To call me goddess, nymph, divine and rare, Precious, celestial? Wherefore speaks he this To her he hates? and wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love, so rich within his soul, And tender me, forsooth, affection, But by your setting on, by your consent? What though I be not so in grace as you, So hung upon with love, so fortunate, But miserable most to love unlov'd? This you should pity rather than despise. 
269	adjudicated	0	I understand not what you mean by this.
270	adjudicated	11	Ay, do, persever, counterfeit sad looks, Make mouths upon me when I turn my back; Wink each at other; hold the sweet jest up: This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled. If you have any pity, grace, or manners, You would not make me such an argument. But, fare ye well: 'tis partly mine own fault, Which death or absence soon shall remedy. 
271	adjudicated	0	Stay, gentle Helena! hear my excuse: My love, my life, my soul, fair Helena! 
272	adjudicated	0	O excellent!
273	adjudicated	0	Sweet, do not scorn her so. 
274	adjudicated	1	If she cannot entreat, I can compel. 
275	adjudicated	2	Thou canst compel no more than she entreat: Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers. Helen, I love thee; by my life, I do: I swear by that which I will lose for thee, To prove him false that says I love thee not. 
276	adjudicated	0	I say I love thee more than he can do.
277	adjudicated	0	If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too. 
278	adjudicated	0	Quick, come! 
279	adjudicated	0	Lysander, whereto tends all this? 
280	adjudicated	1	Away, you Ethiop! 
281	adjudicated	0	No, no, he'll . . . Seem to break loose; take on, as you would follow, But yet come not: you are a tame man, go! 
282	adjudicated	1	Or I will shake thee from me like a serpent.
283	adjudicated	1	Why are you grown so rude? what change is this, Sweet love,— 
284	adjudicated	1	Thy love! out, tawny Tartar, out! Out, loathed medicine! hated poison, hence! 
285	adjudicated	11	Do you not jest?
286	adjudicated	11	Yes, sooth; and so do you. 
287	adjudicated	1	Demetrius, I will keep my word with thee. 
288	adjudicated	1	I would I had your bond, for I perceive A weak bond holds you: I'll not trust your word. 
289	adjudicated	4	What! should I hurt her, strike her, kill her dead? Although I hate her, I'll not harm her so. 
290	adjudicated	0	What! can you do me greater harm than hate? Hate me! wherefore? O me! what news, my love? Am not I Hermia? Are not you Lysander? I am as fair now as I was erewhile. Since night you lov'd me; yet, since night you left me: Why, then you left me,—O, the gods forbid!— In earnest, shall I say? 
291	adjudicated	0	Ay, by my life; And never did desire to see thee more. Therefore be out of hope, of question, doubt; Be certain, nothing truer: 'tis no jest, That I do hate thee and love Helena. 
292	adjudicated	1	O me! you juggler! you canker-blossom! You thief of love! what! have you come by night And stol'n my love's heart from him?
293	adjudicated	0	Fine, i' faith! Have you no modesty, no maiden shame, No touch of bashfulness? What! will you tear Impatient answers from my gentle tongue? Fie, fie! you counterfeit, you puppet you! 
294	adjudicated	1	Puppet! why, so: ay, that way goes the game. Now I perceive that she hath made compare Between our statures: she hath urg'd her height; And with her personage, her tall personage, Her height, forsooth, she hath prevail'd with him. And are you grown so high in his esteem, Because I am so dwarfish and so low? How low am I, thou painted maypole? speak; How low am I? I am not yet so low But that my nails can reach unto thine eyes. 
295	adjudicated	0	I pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen, Let her not hurt me: I was never curst; I have no gift at all in shrewishness; I am a right maid for my cowardice: Let her not strike me. You perhaps may think, Because she is something lower than myself, That I can match her. 
296	adjudicated	0	Lower! hark, again. 
297	adjudicated	0	Good Hermia, do not be so bitter with me. I evermore did love you, Hermia, Did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you; Save that, in love unto Demetrius, I told him of your stealth unto this wood. He follow'd you; for love I follow'd him; But he hath chid me hence, and threaten'd me To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too: And now, so you will let me quiet go, To Athens will I bear my folly back, And follow you no further: let me go: You see how simple and how fond I am. 
298	adjudicated	0	Why, get you gone. Who is't that hinders you? 
299	adjudicated	1	A foolish heart, that I leave here behind. 
300	adjudicated	0	What! with Lysander?
301	adjudicated	0	With Demetrius.
302	adjudicated	0	Be not afraid: she shall not harm thee, Helena. 
303	adjudicated	0	No, sir; she shall not, though you take her part. 
304	adjudicated	1	O! when she's angry, she is keen and shrewd. She was a vixen when she went to school: And though she be but little, she is fierce. 
305	adjudicated	0	'Little' again! nothing but 'low' and 'little!' Why will you suffer her to flout me thus? Let me come to her.
306	adjudicated	1	Get you gone, you dwarf; You minimus, of hindering knot-grass made; You bead, you acorn! 
307	adjudicated	0	You are too officious In her behalf that scorns your services. Let her alone; speak not of Helena; Take not her part, for, if thou dost intend Never so little show of love to her, Thou shalt aby it. 
308	adjudicated	0	Now she holds me not; Now follow, if thou dar'st, to try whose right, Or thine or mine, is most in Helena. 
309	adjudicated	0	Follow! nay, I'll go with thee, cheek by jole. 
310	adjudicated	0	You, mistress, all this coil is 'long of you: Nay, go not back. 
311	adjudicated	1	I will not trust you, I, Nor longer stay in your curst company. Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray, My legs are longer though, to run away. 
312	adjudicated	0	I am amaz'd, and know not what to say. 
313	adjudicated	0	This is thy negligence: still thou mistak'st, Or else commit'st thy knaveries wilfully. 
314	adjudicated	11	Believe me, king of shadows, I mistook. Did not you tell me I should know the man By the Athenian garments he had on? And so far blameless proves my enterprise, That I have 'nointed an Athenian's eyes; And so far am I glad it so did sort, As this their jangling I esteem a sport. 
315	adjudicated	0	Thou see'st these lovers seek a place to fight: Hie therefore, Robin, overcast the night; The starry welking cover thou anon With drooping fog as black as Acheron; And lead these testy rivals so astray, As one come not within another's way. Like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue, Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong; And sometime rail thou like Demetrius; And from each other look thou lead them thus, Till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep: Then crush this herb into Lysander's eye; Whose liquor hath this virtuous property, To take from thence all error with his might, And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight. When they next wake, all this derision Shall seem a dream and fruitless vision; And back to Athens shall the lovers wend, With league whose date till death shall never end. Whiles I in this affair do thee employ, I'll to my queen and beg her Indian boy; And then I will her charmed eye release From monster's view, and all things shall be peace. 
316	adjudicated	3	My fairy lord, this must be done with haste, For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast, And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger; At whose approach, ghosts, wandering here and there, Troop home to churchyards: damned spirits all, That in cross-ways and floods have burial, Already to their wormy beds are gone; For fear lest day should look their shames upon, They wilfully themselves exile from light, And must for aye consort with black-brow'd night. 
317	adjudicated	2	But we are spirits of another sort. I with the morning's love have oft made sport; And, like a forester, the groves may tread, Even till the eastern gate, all fiery-red, Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams, Turns into yellow gold his salt green-streams. But, notwithstanding, haste; make no delay: We may effect this business yet ere day. 
318	adjudicated	0	Up and down, up and down; I will lead them up and down: I am fear'd in field and town; Goblin, lead them up and down. 
319	adjudicated	0	Here comes one.
320	adjudicated	0	Where art thou, proud Demetrius? speak thou now. 
321	adjudicated	0	Here, villain! drawn and ready. Where art thou? 
322	adjudicated	0	I will be with thee straight.
323	adjudicated	0	Follow me, then, To plainer ground. 
324	adjudicated	1	Lysander! speak again. Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled? Speak! In some bush? Where dost thou hide thy head? 
325	adjudicated	1	Thou coward! art thou bragging to the stars, Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars, And wilt not come? Come, recreant; come, thou child; I'll whip thee with a rod: he is defil'd That draws a sword on thee. 
326	adjudicated	0	Yea, art thou there? 
327	adjudicated	0	Follow my voice: we'll try no manhood here.
328	adjudicated	2	He goes before me and still dares me on: When I come where he calls, then he is gone. The villain is much lighter-heel'd than I: I follow'd fast, but faster he did fly; That fallen am I in dark uneven way, 
329	adjudicated	3	For if but once thou show me thy grey light, I'll find Demetrius and revenge this spite. 
330	adjudicated	0	Ho! ho! ho! Coward, why com'st thou not? 
331	adjudicated	0	Abide me, if thou dar'st; for well I wot Thou runn'st before me, shifting every place, And dar'st not stand, nor look me in the face. Where art thou now? 
332	adjudicated	0	Come hither: I am here.
333	adjudicated	0	Nay then, thou mock'st me. Thou shalt buy this dear, If ever I thy face by daylight see: Now, go thy way. Faintness constraineth me To measure out my length on this cold bed: By day's approach look to be visited. 
334	adjudicated	3	O weary night! O long and tedious night, Abate thy hours! shine, comforts, from the east! That I may back to Athens by daylight, From these that my poor company detest: And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye, Steal me awhile from mine own company. 
335	adjudicated	1	Yet but three? Come one more; Two of both kinds make up four. Here she comes, curst and sad: Cupid is a knavish lad, Thus to make poor females mad. 
336	adjudicated	4	Never so weary, never so in woe, Bedabbled with the dew and torn with briers, I can no further crawl, no further go; My legs can keep no pace with my desires. Here will I rest me till the break of day. Heavens shield Lysander, if they mean a fray! 
337	adjudicated	0	On the ground Sleep sound: I'll apply To your eye, Gentle lover, remedy 
338	adjudicated	1	When thou wak'st, Thou tak'st True delight In the sight Of thy former lady's eye: And the country proverb known, That every man should take his own, In your waking shall be shown: Jack shall have Jill; Nought shall go ill; The man shall have his mare again, And all shall be well. 
339	adjudicated	0	Come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed, While I thy amiable cheeks do coy, And stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head, And kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy. 
340	adjudicated	0	Where's Pease-blossom?
341	adjudicated	0	Scratch my head, Pease-blossom. Where's Mounsieur Cobweb? 
342	adjudicated	0	Mounsieur Cobweb, good mounsieur, get your weapons in your hand, and kill me a red-hipped humble-bee on the top of a thistle; and, good mounsieur, bring me the honey-bag. Do not fret yourself too much in the action, mounsieur; and, good mounsieur, have a care the honey-bag break not; I would be loath to have you overflown with a honey-bag, signior. Where's Mounsieur Mustard-seed? 
343	adjudicated	0	Ready.
344	adjudicated	0	Give me your neaf, Mounsieur Mustard-seed. Pray you, leave your curtsy, good mounsieur. 
345	adjudicated	1	What's your will?
346	adjudicated	1	Nothing, good mounsieur, but to help Cavalery Cobweb to scratch. I must to the barber's, mounsieur, for methinks I am marvellous hairy about the face; and I am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me, I must scratch. 
347	adjudicated	0	What, wilt thou hear some music, my sweet love? 
348	adjudicated	0	I have a reasonable good ear in music: let us have the tongs and the bones.
349	adjudicated	4	Or say, sweet love, what thou desir'st to eat. 
350	adjudicated	2	Truly, a peck of provender: I could munch your good dry oats. Methinks I have a great desire to a bottle of hay: good hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow. 
351	adjudicated	0	I have a venturous fairy that shall seek The squirrel's hoard, and fetch thee thence new nuts. 
352	adjudicated	4	I had rather have a handful or two of dried pease. But, I pray you, let none of your people stir me: I have an exposition of sleep come upon me. 
353	adjudicated	0	Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms. Fairies, be gone, and be all ways away. 
354	adjudicated	2	So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle Gently entwist; the female ivy so Enrings the barky fingers of the elm. O! how I love thee; how I dote on thee!
355	adjudicated	3	Her dotage now I do begin to pity: For, meeting her of late behind the wood, Seeking sweet favours for this hateful fool, I did upbraid her and fall out with her; For she his hairy temples then had rounded With coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers; And that same dew, which sometime on the buds Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls, Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail. When I had at my pleasure taunted her, And she in mild terms begg'd my patience, I then did ask of her her changeling child; Which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent To bear him to my bower in fairy land. And now I have the boy, I will undo This hateful imperfection of her eyes: And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp From off the head of this Athenian swain, That he, awaking when the other do, May all to Athens back again repair, And think no more of this night's accidents But as the fierce vexation of a dream. But first I will release the fairy queen. 
356	adjudicated	0	Be as thou wast wont to be; See as thou wast wont to see: Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower Hath such force and blessed power.
357	adjudicated	0	Now, my Titania; wake you, my sweet queen. 
358	adjudicated	1	My Oberon! what visions have I seen! Methought I was enamour'd of an ass.
359	adjudicated	1	There lies your love.
360	adjudicated	0	How came these things to pass? O! how mine eyes do loathe his visage now.
361	adjudicated	0	Silence, awhile. Robin, take off this head. Titania, music call; and strike more dead Than common sleep of all these five the sense. 
362	adjudicated	0	Music, ho! music! such as charmeth sleep. 
363	adjudicated	0	When thou wak'st, with thine own fool's eyes peep. 
364	adjudicated	4	And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be. Now thou and I are new in amity, And will to-morrow midnight solemnly Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly, And bless it to all fair prosperity. There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity. 
365	adjudicated	3	Fairy king, attend, and mark: I do hear the morning lark. 
366	adjudicated	4	Then, my queen, in silence sad, Trip we after the night's shade; We the globe can compass soon, Swifter than the wandering moon. 
367	adjudicated	0	Come, my lord; and in our flight Tell me how it came this night That I sleeping here was found With these mortals on the ground. 
368	adjudicated	1	Go, one of you, find out the forester; For now our observation is perform'd; And since we have the vaward of the day, My love shall hear the music of my hounds. Uncouple in the western valley; let them go: Dispatch, I say, and find the forester. We will, fair queen, up to the mountain's top, And mark the musical confusion Of hounds and echo in conjunction. 
369	adjudicated	14	I was with Hercules and Cadmus once, When in a wood of Crete they bay'd the bear With hounds of Sparta: never did I hear Such gallant chiding; for, besides the groves, The skies, the fountains, every region near Seem'd all one mutual cry. I never heard So musical a discord, such sweet thunder. 
370	adjudicated	2	My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind, So flew'd, so sanded; and their heads are hung With ears that sweep away the morning dew; Crook-knee'd, and dew-lapp'd like Thessalian bulls; Slow in pursuit, but match'd in mouth like bells, Each under each. A cry more tuneable Was never holla'd to, nor cheer'd with horn, In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly: Judge, when you hear. But, soft! what nymphs are these? 
371	adjudicated	0	My lord, this is my daughter here asleep; And this, Lysander; this Demetrius is; This Helena, old Nedar's Helena: I wonder of their being here together. 
372	adjudicated	0	No doubt they rose up early to observe The rite of May, and, hearing our intent, Came here in grace of our solemnity. But speak, Egeus, is not this the day That Hermia should give answer of her choice? 
373	adjudicated	0	It is, my lord. 
374	adjudicated	0	Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns. 
375	adjudicated	0	Good morrow, friends. Saint Valentine is past: 
376	adjudicated	0	Begin these wood-birds but to couple now?
377	adjudicated	0	Pardon, my lord. 
378	adjudicated	0	I pray you all, stand up. I know you two are rival enemies: How comes this gentle concord in the world, That hatred is so far from jealousy, To sleep by hate, and fear no enmity? 
379	adjudicated	0	My lord, I shall reply amazedly, Half sleep, half waking: but as yet, I swear, I cannot truly say how I came here; But, as I think,—for truly would I speak, And now I do bethink me, so it is,— I came with Hermia hither: our intent Was to be gone from Athens, where we might, Without the peril of the Athenian law— 
380	adjudicated	0	Enough, enough, my lord; you have enough: I beg the law, the law, upon his head. They would have stol'n away; they would, Demetrius, Thereby to have defeated you and me; You of your wife, and me of my consent, Of my consent that she should be your wife. 
381	adjudicated	1	My lord, fair Helen told me of their stealth, Of this their purpose hither, to this wood; And I in fury hither follow'd them, Fair Helena in fancy following me. But, my good lord, I wot not by what power,— But by some power it is,—my love to Hermia, Melted as doth the snow, seems to me now As the remembrance of an idle gaud Which in my childhood I did dote upon; And all the faith, the virtue of my heart, The object and the pleasure of mine eye, Is only Helena. To her, my lord, Was I betroth'd ere I saw Hermia: But, like in sickness, did I loathe this food; But, as in health, come to my natural taste, Now do I wish it, love it, long for it, And will for evermore be true to it. 
382	adjudicated	0	Fair lovers, you are fortunately met: Of this discourse we more will hear anon. Egeus, I will overbear your will, For in the temple, by and by, with us, These couples shall eternally be knit: And, for the morning now is something worn, Our purpos'd hunting shall be set aside. Away with us, to Athens: three and three, We'll hold a feast in great solemnity. Come, Hippolyta. 
383	adjudicated	2	These things seem small and undistinguishable, Like far-off mountains turned into clouds. 
384	adjudicated	1	Methinks I see these things with parted eye, When everything seems double. 
385	adjudicated	2	So methinks: And I have found Demetrius, like a jewel, Mine own, and not mine own. 
386	adjudicated	0	Are you sure That we are awake? It seems to me That yet we sleep, we dream. Do you not think The duke was here, and bid us follow him? 
387	adjudicated	0	Yea; and my father.
388	adjudicated	0	And Hippolyta.
389	adjudicated	0	And he did bid us follow to the temple.
390	adjudicated	0	Why then, we are awake. Let's follow him; And by the way let us recount our dreams. 
391	adjudicated	0	Have you sent to Bottom's house? is he come home yet?
392	adjudicated	0	He cannot be heard of. Out of doubt he is transported.
393	adjudicated	0	If he come not, then the play is marred: it goes not forward, doth it? 
394	adjudicated	0	It is not possible: you have not a man in all Athens able to discharge Pyramus but he.
395	adjudicated	0	No; he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in Athens.
396	adjudicated	0	Yea, and the best person too; and he is a very paramour for a sweet voice. 
397	adjudicated	0	You must say, 'paragon:' a paramour is, God bless us! a thing of naught. 
398	adjudicated	4	Masters, the duke is coming from the temple, and there is two or three lords and ladies more married: if our sport had gone forward, we had all been made men. 
399	adjudicated	4	O sweet bully Bottom! Thus hath he lost sixpence a day during his life; he could not have 'scaped sixpence a day: an the duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing Pyramus, I'll be hanged; he would have deserved it: sixpence a day in Pyramus, or nothing. 
400	adjudicated	0	Where are these lads? where are these hearts?
401	adjudicated	0	Bottom! O most courageous day! O most happy hour!
402	adjudicated	0	Masters, I am to discourse wonders: but ask me not what; for if I tell you, I am no true Athenian. I will tell you everything, right as it fell out. 
403	adjudicated	0	Let us hear, sweet Bottom. 
404	adjudicated	0	Not a word of me. All that I will tell you is, that the duke hath dined. Get your apparel together, good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your pumps; meet presently at the palace; every man look o'er his part; for the short and the long is, our play is preferred. In any case, let Thisby have clean linen; and let not him that plays the lion pare his nails, for they shall hang out for the lion's claws. And, most dear actors, eat no onions nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath, and I do not doubt but to hear them say, it is a sweet comedy. No more words: away! go; away. 
405	adjudicated	0	'Tis strange, my Theseus, that these lovers speak of. 
406	adjudicated	0	More strange than true. I never may believe These antique fables, nor these fairy toys. Lovers and madmen have such seething brains, Such shaping fantasies, that apprehend More than cool reason ever comprehends. The lunatic, the lover, and the poet, Are of imagination all compact: One sees more devils than vast hell can hold, That is, the madman; the lover, all as frantic, Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt: The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven; And, as imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name. Such tricks hath strong imagination, That, if it would but apprehend some joy, It comprehends some bringer of that joy; Or in the night, imagining some fear, How easy is a bush suppos'd a bear! 
407	adjudicated	1	But all the story of the night told over, And all their minds transfigur'd so together, More witnesseth than fancy's images, And grows to something of great constancy, But, howsoever, strange and admirable. 
408	adjudicated	2	Here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth. 
409	adjudicated	1	Joy, gentle friends! joy, and fresh days of love 
410	adjudicated	2	Accompany your hearts!
411	adjudicated	0	More than to us Wait in your royal walks, your board, your bed! 
412	adjudicated	1	Come now; what masques, what dances shall we have, To wear away this long age of three hours Between our after-supper and bed-time? Where is our usual manager of mirth? What revels are in hand? Is there no play, To ease the anguish of a torturing hour? Call Philostrate. 
413	adjudicated	0	Here, mighty Theseus. 
414	adjudicated	0	Say, what abridgment have you for this evening? What masque? what music? How shall we beguile The lazy time, if not with some delight? 
415	adjudicated	0	There is a brief how many sports are ripe; Make choice of which your highness will see first.
416	adjudicated	14	The battle with the Centaurs, to be sung By an Athenian eunuch to the harp. We'll none of that: that have I told my love, In glory of my kinsman Hercules. The riot of the tipsy Bacchanals, Tearing the Thracian singer in their rage. That is an old device; and it was play'd When I from Thebes came last a conqueror. The thrice three Muses mourning for the death Of Learning, late deceas'd in beggary. That is some satire keen and critical, Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony. A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus And his love Thisbe; very tragical mirth. Merry and tragical! tedious and brief! That is, hot ice and wonderous strange snow. How shall we find the concord of this discord? 
417	adjudicated	4	A play there is, my lord, some ten words long, Which is as brief as I have known a play; But by ten words, my lord, it is too long, Which makes it tedious; for in all the play There is not one word apt, one player fitted. And tragical, my noble lord, it is; For Pyramus therein doth kill himself. Which when I saw rehears'd, I must confess, Made mine eyes water; but more merry tears The passion of loud laughter never shed. 
418	adjudicated	0	What are they that do play it?
419	adjudicated	0	Hard-handed men, that work in Athens here, Which never labour'd in their minds till now, And now have toil'd their unbreath'd memories With this same play, against your nuptial. 
420	adjudicated	0	And we will hear it.
421	adjudicated	0	No, my noble lord; It is not for you: I have heard it over, And it is nothing, nothing in the world; Unless you can find sport in their intents, Extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain, To do you service. 
422	adjudicated	1	I will hear that play; For never anything can be amiss, When simpleness and duty tender it. Go, bring them in: and take your places, ladies. 
423	adjudicated	0	I love not to see wretchedness o'ercharg'd, And duty in his service perishing. 
424	adjudicated	0	Why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing. 
425	adjudicated	0	He says they can do nothing in this kind.
426	adjudicated	1	The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing. Our sport shall be to take what they mistake: And what poor duty cannot do, noble respect Takes it in might, not merit. Where I have come, great clerks have purposed To greet me with premeditated welcomes; Where I have seen them shiver and look pale, Make periods in the midst of sentences, Throttle their practis'd accent in their fears, And, in conclusion, dumbly have broke off, Not paying me a welcome. Trust me, sweet, Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome; And in the modesty of fearful duty I read as much as from the rattling tongue Of saucy and audacious eloquence. Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity In least speak most, to my capacity. 
427	adjudicated	0	So please your Grace, the Prologue is address'd. 
428	adjudicated	0	Let him approach.
429	adjudicated	0	If we offend, it is with our good will. That you should think, we come not to offend, But with good will. To show our simple skill, That is the true beginning of our end. Consider then we come but in despite. We do not come as minding to content you, Our true intent is. All for your delight, We are not here. That you should here repent you, The actors are at hand; and, by their show, You shall know all that you are like to know. 
430	adjudicated	2	This fellow doth not stand upon points.
431	adjudicated	2	He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows not the stop. A good moral, my lord: it is not enough to speak, but to speak true. 
432	adjudicated	2	Indeed he hath played on his prologue like a child on a recorder; a sound, but not in government. 
433	adjudicated	2	His speech was like a tangled chain; nothing impaired, but all disordered. Who is next? 
434	adjudicated	1	Gentles, perchance you wonder at this show; But wonder on, till truth make all things plain. This man is Pyramus, if you would know; This beauteous lady Thisby is, certain. This man, with lime and rough-cast, doth present Wall, that vile Wall which did these lovers sunder; And through Wall's chink, poor souls, they are content To whisper, at the which let no man wonder. This man, with lanthorn, dog, and bush of thorn, Presenteth Moonshine; for, if you will know, By moonshine did these lovers think no scorn To meet at Ninus' tomb, there, there to woo. This grisly beast, which Lion hight by name, The trusty Thisby, coming first by night, Did scare away, or rather did affright; And, as she fied, her mantle she did fall, Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain. Anon comes Pyramus, sweet youth and tall, And finds his trusty Thisby's mantle slain: Whereat, with blade, with bloody blameful blade, He bravely broach'd his boiling bloody breast; And Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade, His dagger drew, and died. For all the rest, Let Lion, Moonshine, Wall, and lovers twain, At large discourse, while here they do remain. 
435	adjudicated	11	I wonder, if the lion be to speak. 
436	adjudicated	1	No wonder, my lord: one lion may, when many asses do. Wall. In this same interlude it doth befall That I, one Snout by name, present a wall; And such a wall, as I would have you think, That had in it a crannied hole or chink, Through which the lovers, Pyramus and Thisby, Did whisper often very secretly. This loam, this rough-cast, and this stone doth show That I am that same wall; the truth is so; And this the cranny is, right and sinister, Through which the fearful lovers are to whisper. 
437	adjudicated	0	Would you desire lime and hair to speak better?
438	adjudicated	4	It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard discourse, my lord. 
439	adjudicated	0	Pyramus draws near the wall: silence!
440	adjudicated	3	O grim-look'd night! O night with hue so black! O night, which ever art when day is not! O night! O night! alack, alack, alack! I fear my Thisby's promise is forgot. And thou, O wall! O sweet, O lovely wall! That stand'st between her father's ground and mine; Thou wall, O wall! O sweet, and lovely wall! Show me thy chink to blink through with mine eyne. 
441	adjudicated	3	Thanks, courteous wall: Jove shield thee well for this! But what see I? No Thisby do I see. O wicked wall! through whom I see no bliss; Curs'd be thy stones for thus deceiving me! 
442	adjudicated	0	The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again. 
443	adjudicated	0	No, in truth, sir, he should not. 'Deceiving me,' is Thisby's cue: she is to enter now, and I am to spy her through the wall. You shall see, it will fall pat as I told you. Yonder she comes. 
444	adjudicated	3	O wall! full often hast thou heard my moans, For parting my fair Pyramus and me: My cherry lips have often kiss'd thy stones, Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee. 
445	adjudicated	1	I see a voice: now will I to the chink, To spy an I can hear my Thisby's face. Thisby. 
446	adjudicated	0	My love! thou art my love, I think. 
447	adjudicated	14	Think what thou wilt, I am thy lover's grace; And, like Limander, am I trusty still. 
448	adjudicated	14	And I like Helen, till the Fates me kill. 
449	adjudicated	14	Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true.
450	adjudicated	14	As Shafalus to Procrus, I to you. 
451	adjudicated	1	O! kiss me through the hole of this vile wall.
452	adjudicated	11	I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all 
453	adjudicated	0	Wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway?
454	adjudicated	0	'Tide life, 'tide death, I come without delay. 
455	adjudicated	1	Thus have I, Wall, my part discharged so; And, being done, thus Wall away doth go. 
456	adjudicated	1	Now is the mural down between the two neighbours.
457	adjudicated	0	No remedy, my lord, when walls are so wilful to hear without warning. 
458	adjudicated	4	This is the silliest stuff that ever I heard.
459	adjudicated	1	The best in this kind are but shadows, and the worst are no worse, if imagination amend them. 
460	adjudicated	0	It must be your imagination then, and not theirs. 
461	adjudicated	1	If we imagine no worse of them than they of themselves, they may pass for excellent men. Here come two noble beasts in, a man and a lion. 
462	adjudicated	0	You, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts do fear The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor, May now perchance both quake and tremble here, When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar. Then know that I, one Snug the joiner, am A lion-fell, nor else no lion's dam: For, if I should as lion come in strife Into this place, 'twere pity on my life. 
463	adjudicated	0	A very gentle beast, and of a good conscience. 
464	adjudicated	0	The very best at a beast, my lord, that e'er I saw. 
465	adjudicated	1	This lion is a very fox for his valour.
466	adjudicated	1	True; and a goose for his discretion.
467	adjudicated	0	Not so, my lord; for his valour cannot carry his discretion, and the fox carries the goose. 
468	adjudicated	0	His discretion, I am sure, cannot carry his valour, for the goose carries not the fox. It is well: leave it to his discretion, and let us listen to the moon. 
469	adjudicated	1	This lanthorn doth the horned moon present;—
470	adjudicated	1	He should have worn the horns on his head.
471	adjudicated	1	He is no crescent, and his horns are invisible within the circumference. 
472	adjudicated	1	This lanthorn doth the horned moon present; Myself the man i' the moon do seem to be.
473	adjudicated	1	This is the greatest error of all the rest. The man should be put into the lanthorn: how is it else the man i' the moon?
474	adjudicated	1	He dares not come there for the candle; for, you see, it is already in snuff. 
475	adjudicated	1	I am aweary of this moon: would he would change!
476	adjudicated	1	It appears, by his small light of discretion, that he is in the wane; but yet, in courtesy, in all reason, we must stay the time. 
477	adjudicated	0	Proceed, Moon. 
478	adjudicated	0	All that I have to say, is, to tell you that the lanthorn is the moon; I, the man in the moon; this thorn-bush, my thorn-bush; and this dog, my dog. 
479	adjudicated	0	Why, all these should be in the lanthorn; for all these are in the moon. But, silence! here comes Thisbe. 
480	adjudicated	0	This is old Ninny's tomb. Where is my love?
481	adjudicated	0	Well roared, Lion. 
482	adjudicated	0	Well run, Thisbe. 
483	adjudicated	0	Well shone, Moon. Truly, the moon shines with a good grace. 
484	adjudicated	0	Well moused, Lion. 
485	adjudicated	0	And then came Pyramus.
486	adjudicated	0	And so the lion vanished.
487	adjudicated	3	Sweet moon, I thank thee for thy sunny beams; I thank thee, moon, for shining now so bright, For, by thy gracious, golden, glittering streams, I trust to taste of truest Thisby's sight. 
488	adjudicated	0	But stay, O spite! But mark, poor knight, What dreadful dole is here! Eyes, do you see? How can it be? O dainty duck! O dear! Thy mantle good, What! stain'd with blood! Approach, ye Furies fell! O Fates, come, come, Cut thread and thrum; Quail, crush, conclude, and quell! 
489	adjudicated	0	This passion, and the death of a dear friend, would go near to make a man look sad. 
490	adjudicated	0	Beshrew my heart, but I pity the man. 
491	adjudicated	0	O! wherefore, Nature, didst thou lions frame? Since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear? Which is—no, no—which was the fairest dame That liv'd, that lov'd, that lik'd, that look'd with cheer. 
492	adjudicated	1	Come tears, confound; Out, sword, and wound The pap of Pyramus: Ay, that left pap, Where heart doth hop: Thus die I, thus, thus, thus. 
493	adjudicated	1	Now am I dead, Now am I fled; My soul is in the sky: Tongue, lose thy light! Moon, take thy flight! 
494	adjudicated	0	Now die, die, die, die, die. 
495	adjudicated	3	Go, Philostrate, Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments; Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth; Turn melancholy forth to funerals; The pale companion is not for our pomp. 
496	adjudicated	2	Now, fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour Draws on apace: four happy days bring in Another moon; but O! methinks how slow This old moon wanes; she lingers my desires, Like to a step dame, or a dowager Long withering out a young man's revenue. 
497	adjudicated	1	Hippolyta, I woo'd thee with my sword, And won thy love doing thee injuries; But I will wed thee in another key, With pomp, with triumph, and with revelling. 
498	adjudicated	3	Full of vexation come I, with complaint Against my child, my daughter Hermia. Stand forth, Demetrius. My noble lord, This man hath my consent to marry her. Stand forth, Lysander: and, my gracious duke, This man hath bewitch'd the bosom of my child: Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rimes, And interchang'd love-tokens with my child; Thou hast by moonlight at her window sung, With feigning voice, verses of feigning love; And stol'n the impression of her fantasy With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds, conceits, Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats, messengers Of strong prevailment in unharden'd youth; With cunning hast thou filch'd my daughter's heart; Turn'd her obedience, which is due to me, To stubborn harshness. And, my gracious duke, Be it so she will not here before your Grace Consent to marry with Demetrius, I beg the ancient privilege of Athens, As she is mine, I may dispose of her; Which shall be either to this gentleman, Or to her death, according to our law Immediately provided in that case. 
499	adjudicated	1	Captain of our fairy band, Helena is here at hand, And the youth, mistook by me, Pleading for a lover's fee. Shall we their fond pageant see? Lord, what fools these mortals be! 
500	adjudicated	0	Stand aside: the noise they make Will cause Demetrius to awake.