429	adjudicated	0	If we offend, it is with our good will. That you should think, we come not to offend, But with good will. To show our simple skill, That is the true beginning of our end. Consider then we come but in despite. We do not come as minding to content you, Our true intent is. All for your delight, We are not here. That you should here repent you, The actors are at hand; and, by their show, You shall know all that you are like to know. 
35	adjudicated	3	O! that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill.
434	adjudicated	1	Gentles, perchance you wonder at this show; But wonder on, till truth make all things plain. This man is Pyramus, if you would know; This beauteous lady Thisby is, certain. This man, with lime and rough-cast, doth present Wall, that vile Wall which did these lovers sunder; And through Wall's chink, poor souls, they are content To whisper, at the which let no man wonder. This man, with lanthorn, dog, and bush of thorn, Presenteth Moonshine; for, if you will know, By moonshine did these lovers think no scorn To meet at Ninus' tomb, there, there to woo. This grisly beast, which Lion hight by name, The trusty Thisby, coming first by night, Did scare away, or rather did affright; And, as she fied, her mantle she did fall, Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain. Anon comes Pyramus, sweet youth and tall, And finds his trusty Thisby's mantle slain: Whereat, with blade, with bloody blameful blade, He bravely broach'd his boiling bloody breast; And Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade, His dagger drew, and died. For all the rest, Let Lion, Moonshine, Wall, and lovers twain, At large discourse, while here they do remain. 
41	adjudicated	1	None, but your beauty: would that fault were mine! 
445	adjudicated	1	I see a voice: now will I to the chink, To spy an I can hear my Thisby's face. Thisby. 
356	adjudicated	0	Be as thou wast wont to be; See as thou wast wont to see: Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower Hath such force and blessed power.
169	adjudicated	0	No, make it two more: let it be written in eight and eight. 
12	adjudicated	14	Take time to pause; and, by the next new moon,— The sealing-day betwixt my love and me For everlasting bond of fellowship,— Upon that day either prepare to die For disobedience to your father's will, Or else to wed Demetrius, as he would; Or on Diana's altar to protest For aye austerity and single life. 
297	adjudicated	0	Good Hermia, do not be so bitter with me. I evermore did love you, Hermia, Did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you; Save that, in love unto Demetrius, I told him of your stealth unto this wood. He follow'd you; for love I follow'd him; But he hath chid me hence, and threaten'd me To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too: And now, so you will let me quiet go, To Athens will I bear my folly back, And follow you no further: let me go: You see how simple and how fond I am. 
254	adjudicated	1	To what, my love, shall I compare thine eyne? Crystal is muddy. O! how ripe in show Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow, This pure congealed white, high Taurus' snow, Fann'd with the eastern wind, turns to a crow When thou hold'st up thy hand. O! let me kiss That princess of pure white, this seal of bliss. 
90	adjudicated	0	How now, spirit! whither wander you? 
343	adjudicated	0	Ready.
317	adjudicated	2	But we are spirits of another sort. I with the morning's love have oft made sport; And, like a forester, the groves may tread, Even till the eastern gate, all fiery-red, Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams, Turns into yellow gold his salt green-streams. But, notwithstanding, haste; make no delay: We may effect this business yet ere day. 
150	adjudicated	0	I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus. 
173	adjudicated	0	Therefore, another prologue must tell he is not a lion. 
338	adjudicated	1	When thou wak'st, Thou tak'st True delight In the sight Of thy former lady's eye: And the country proverb known, That every man should take his own, In your waking shall be shown: Jack shall have Jill; Nought shall go ill; The man shall have his mare again, And all shall be well. 
223	adjudicated	3	Come, wait upon him; lead him to my bower. The moon methinks, looks with a watery eye; And when she weeps, weeps every little flower, Lamenting some enforced chastity. Tie up my love's tongue, bring him silently. 
1	adjudicated	2	Four days will quickly steep themselves in night; Four nights will quickly dream away the time; And then the moon, like to a silver bow New-bent in heaven, shall behold the night Of our solemnities. 
9	adjudicated	0	I do entreat your Grace to pardon me. I know not by what power I am made bold, Nor how it may concern my modesty In such a presence here to plead my thoughts; But I beseech your Grace, that I may know The worst that may befall me in this case, If I refuse to wed Demetrius. 
372	adjudicated	0	No doubt they rose up early to observe The rite of May, and, hearing our intent, Came here in grace of our solemnity. But speak, Egeus, is not this the day That Hermia should give answer of her choice? 
295	adjudicated	0	I pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen, Let her not hurt me: I was never curst; I have no gift at all in shrewishness; I am a right maid for my cowardice: Let her not strike me. You perhaps may think, Because she is something lower than myself, That I can match her. 
71	adjudicated	0	Robin Starveling, the tailor. 
122	adjudicated	14	I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes, And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts. 
110	adjudicated	0	I remember.
364	adjudicated	4	And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be. Now thou and I are new in amity, And will to-morrow midnight solemnly Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly, And bless it to all fair prosperity. There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity. 
257	adjudicated	0	Never did mockers waste more idle breath.
256	adjudicated	0	You are unkind, Demetrius; be not so; For you love Hermia; this you know I know: And here, with all good will, with all my heart, In Hermia's love I yield you up my part; And yours of Helena to me bequeath, Whom I do love, and will do to my death. 
471	adjudicated	1	He is no crescent, and his horns are invisible within the circumference. 
95	adjudicated	1	Fairy, thou speak'st aright; I am that merry wanderer of the night. I jest to Oberon, and make him smile When I a fat and bean-fed horse beguile, Neighing in likeness of a filly foal: And sometime lurk I in a gossip's bowl, In very likeness of a roasted crab; And, when she drinks, against her lips I bob And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale. The wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale, Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me; Then slip I from her bum, down topples she, And 'tailor' cries, and falls into a cough; And then the whole quire hold their hips and loff; And waxen in their mirth, and neeze, and swear A merrier hour was never wasted there. But, room, fairy! here comes Oberon. 
158	adjudicated	1	She sees not Hermia. Hermia, sleep thou there; And never mayst thou come Lysander near. For, as a surfeit of the sweetest things The deepest loathing to the stomach brings; Or, as the heresies that men do leave Are hated most of those they did deceive: So thou, my surfeit and my heresy, Of all be hated, but the most of me! And, all my powers, address your love and might To honour Helen, and to be her knight. 
217	adjudicated	0	Cobweb.
19	adjudicated	1	How now, my love! Why is your cheek so pale? How chance the roses there do fade so fast? 
152	adjudicated	0	Stay, on thy peril: I alone will go. 
358	adjudicated	1	My Oberon! what visions have I seen! Methought I was enamour'd of an ass.
475	adjudicated	1	I am aweary of this moon: would he would change!
437	adjudicated	0	Would you desire lime and hair to speak better?
147	adjudicated	3	Through the forest have I gone, But Athenian found I none, On whose eyes I might approve This flower's force in stirring love. Night and silence! who is here? Weeds of Athens he doth wear: This is he, my master said, Despised the Athenian maid; And here the maiden, sleeping sound, On the dank and dirty ground. Pretty soul! she durst not lie Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy. 
293	adjudicated	0	Fine, i' faith! Have you no modesty, no maiden shame, No touch of bashfulness? What! will you tear Impatient answers from my gentle tongue? Fie, fie! you counterfeit, you puppet you! 
360	adjudicated	0	How came these things to pass? O! how mine eyes do loathe his visage now.
24	adjudicated	0	O spite! too old to be engag'd to young.
284	adjudicated	1	Thy love! out, tawny Tartar, out! Out, loathed medicine! hated poison, hence! 
195	adjudicated	0	If I were, fair Thisby, I were only thine. 
17	adjudicated	0	I must confess that I have heard so much, And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof; But, being over-full of self-affairs, My mind did lose it. But, Demetrius, come; And come, Egeus; you shall go with me, I have some private schooling for you both. For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself To fit your fancies to your father's will, Or else the law of Athens yields you up, Which by no means we may extenuate, To death, or to a vow of single life. Come, my Hippolyta: what cheer, my love? Demetrius and Egeus, go along: I must employ you in some business Against our nuptial, and confer with you Of something nearly that concerns yourselves. 
431	adjudicated	2	He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows not the stop. A good moral, my lord: it is not enough to speak, but to speak true. 
444	adjudicated	3	O wall! full often hast thou heard my moans, For parting my fair Pyramus and me: My cherry lips have often kiss'd thy stones, Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee. 
185	adjudicated	0	Speak, Pyramus.—Thisby, stand forth. 
126	adjudicated	1	I'll follow thee and make a heaven of hell, To die upon the hand I love so well. 
197	adjudicated	1	I'll follow you, I'll lead you about a round, Through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier: Sometime a horse I'll be, sometime a hound, A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire; And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn, Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn. 
416	adjudicated	14	The battle with the Centaurs, to be sung By an Athenian eunuch to the harp. We'll none of that: that have I told my love, In glory of my kinsman Hercules. The riot of the tipsy Bacchanals, Tearing the Thracian singer in their rage. That is an old device; and it was play'd When I from Thebes came last a conqueror. The thrice three Muses mourning for the death Of Learning, late deceas'd in beggary. That is some satire keen and critical, Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony. A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus And his love Thisbe; very tragical mirth. Merry and tragical! tedious and brief! That is, hot ice and wonderous strange snow. How shall we find the concord of this discord? 
50	adjudicated	0	First, good Peter Quince, say what the play treats on; then read the names of the actors, and so grow to a point. 
301	adjudicated	0	With Demetrius.
401	adjudicated	0	Bottom! O most courageous day! O most happy hour!
132	adjudicated	6	Come, now a roundel and a fairy song; Then, for the third of a minute, hence; Some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds, Some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings, To make my small elves coats, and some keep back The clamorous owl, that nightly hoots, and wonders At our quaint spirits. Sing me now asleep; Then to your offices, and let me rest. 
495	adjudicated	3	Go, Philostrate, Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments; Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth; Turn melancholy forth to funerals; The pale companion is not for our pomp. 
252	adjudicated	0	Nor none, in my mind, now you give her o'er. 
433	adjudicated	2	His speech was like a tangled chain; nothing impaired, but all disordered. Who is next? 
316	adjudicated	3	My fairy lord, this must be done with haste, For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast, And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger; At whose approach, ghosts, wandering here and there, Troop home to churchyards: damned spirits all, That in cross-ways and floods have burial, Already to their wormy beds are gone; For fear lest day should look their shames upon, They wilfully themselves exile from light, And must for aye consort with black-brow'd night. 
174	adjudicated	2	Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck; and he himself must speak through, saying thus, or to the same defect, 'Ladies,' or, 'Fair ladies,' 'I would wish you,' or, 'I would request you,' or, 'I would entreat you, not to fear, not to tremble: my life for yours. If you think I come hither as a lion, it were pity of my life: no, I am no such thing: I am a man as other men are;' and there indeed let him name his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner. 
270	adjudicated	11	Ay, do, persever, counterfeit sad looks, Make mouths upon me when I turn my back; Wink each at other; hold the sweet jest up: This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled. If you have any pity, grace, or manners, You would not make me such an argument. But, fare ye well: 'tis partly mine own fault, Which death or absence soon shall remedy. 
172	adjudicated	0	Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves: to bring in,—God shield us!—a lion among ladies, is a most dreadful thing; for there is not a more fearful wild-fowl than your lion living, and we ought to look to it. 
390	adjudicated	0	Why then, we are awake. Let's follow him; And by the way let us recount our dreams. 
287	adjudicated	1	Demetrius, I will keep my word with thee. 
282	adjudicated	1	Or I will shake thee from me like a serpent.
7	adjudicated	1	I would my father look'd but with my eyes.
435	adjudicated	11	I wonder, if the lion be to speak. 
31	adjudicated	0	Keep promise, love. Look, here comes Helena. 
87	adjudicated	0	We will meet; and there we may rehearse more obscenely and courageously. Take pains; be perfect; adieu.
268	adjudicated	1	Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn, To follow me and praise my eyes and face, And made your other love, Demetrius,— Who even but now did spurn me with his foot,— To call me goddess, nymph, divine and rare, Precious, celestial? Wherefore speaks he this To her he hates? and wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love, so rich within his soul, And tender me, forsooth, affection, But by your setting on, by your consent? What though I be not so in grace as you, So hung upon with love, so fortunate, But miserable most to love unlov'd? This you should pity rather than despise. 
366	adjudicated	4	Then, my queen, in silence sad, Trip we after the night's shade; We the globe can compass soon, Swifter than the wandering moon. 
63	adjudicated	0	You must take Thisby on you.
353	adjudicated	0	Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms. Fairies, be gone, and be all ways away. 
328	adjudicated	2	He goes before me and still dares me on: When I come where he calls, then he is gone. The villain is much lighter-heel'd than I: I follow'd fast, but faster he did fly; That fallen am I in dark uneven way, 
141	adjudicated	1	Nay, good Lysander; for my sake, my dear, Lie further off yet, do not lie so near. 
406	adjudicated	0	More strange than true. I never may believe These antique fables, nor these fairy toys. Lovers and madmen have such seething brains, Such shaping fantasies, that apprehend More than cool reason ever comprehends. The lunatic, the lover, and the poet, Are of imagination all compact: One sees more devils than vast hell can hold, That is, the madman; the lover, all as frantic, Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt: The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven; And, as imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name. Such tricks hath strong imagination, That, if it would but apprehend some joy, It comprehends some bringer of that joy; Or in the night, imagining some fear, How easy is a bush suppos'd a bear! 
102	adjudicated	3	These are the forgeries of jealousy: And never, since the middle summer's spring, Met we on hill, in dale, forest, or mead, By paved fountain, or by rushy brook, Or in the beached margent of the sea, To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind, But with thy brawls thou hast disturb'd our sport. Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain, As in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea Contagious fogs; which, falling in the land, Have every pelting river made so proud That they have overborne their continents: The ox hath therefore stretch'd his yoke in vain, The ploughman lost his sweat, and the green corn Hath rotted ere his youth attain'd a beard: The fold stands empty in the drowned field, And crows are fatted with the murrion flock; The nine men's morris is fill'd up with mud, And the quaint mazes in the wanton green For lack of tread are undistinguishable: The human mortals want their winter here: No night is now with hymn or carol blest: Therefore the moon, the governess of floods, Pale in her anger, washes all the air, That rheumatic diseases do abound: And thorough this distemperature we see The seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts Fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose, And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds Is, as in mockery, set. The spring, the summer, The childing autumn, angry winter, change Their wonted liveries, and the mazed world, By their increase, now knows not which is which. And this same progeny of evil comes From our debate, from our dissension: We are their parents and original. 
304	adjudicated	1	O! when she's angry, she is keen and shrewd. She was a vixen when she went to school: And though she be but little, she is fierce. 
494	adjudicated	0	Now die, die, die, die, die. 
65	adjudicated	0	It is the lady that Pyramus must love.
210	adjudicated	1	Out of this wood do not desire to go: Thou shalt remain here, whe'r thou wilt or no. I am a spirit of no common rate; The summer still doth tend upon my state; And I do love thee: therefore, go with me; I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee, And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep, And sing, while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep: And I will purge thy mortal grossness so That thou shalt like an airy spirit go. Pease-blossom! Cobweb! Moth! and Mustardseed! 
117	adjudicated	2	And even for that do I love you the more. I am your spaniel; and, Demetrius, The more you beat me, I will fawn on you: Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me, Neglect me, lose me; only give me leave, Unworthy as I am, to follow you. What worser place can I beg in your love, And yet a place of high respect with me, Than to be used as you use your dog? 
266	adjudicated	2	Lo! she is one of this confederacy. Now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three To fashion this false sport in spite of me. Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid! Have you conspir'd, have you with these contriv'd To bait me with this foul derision? Is all the counsel that we two have shar'd, The sister-vows, the hours that we have spent, When we have chid the hasty-footed time For parting us, O! is it all forgot? All school-days' friendship, childhood innocence? We, Hermia, like two artificial gods, Have with our neelds created both one flower, Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion, Both warbling of one song, both in one key, As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds, Had been incorporate. So we grew together, Like to a double cherry, seeming parted, But yet an union in partition; Two lovely berries moulded on one stem; So, with two seeming bodies, but one heart; Two of the first, like coats in heraldry, Due but to one, and crowned with one crest. And will you rent our ancient love asunder, To join with men in scorning your poor friend? It is not friendly, 'tis not maidenly: Our sex, as well as I, may chide you for it, Though I alone do feel the injury. 
388	adjudicated	0	And Hippolyta.
359	adjudicated	1	There lies your love.
371	adjudicated	0	My lord, this is my daughter here asleep; And this, Lysander; this Demetrius is; This Helena, old Nedar's Helena: I wonder of their being here together. 
319	adjudicated	0	Here comes one.
78	adjudicated	4	Let me play the lion too. I will roar, that I will do any man's heart good to hear me; I will roar, that I will make the duke say, 'Let him roar again, let him roar again.' 
451	adjudicated	1	O! kiss me through the hole of this vile wall.
273	adjudicated	0	Sweet, do not scorn her so. 
476	adjudicated	1	It appears, by his small light of discretion, that he is in the wane; but yet, in courtesy, in all reason, we must stay the time. 
314	adjudicated	11	Believe me, king of shadows, I mistook. Did not you tell me I should know the man By the Athenian garments he had on? And so far blameless proves my enterprise, That I have 'nointed an Athenian's eyes; And so far am I glad it so did sort, As this their jangling I esteem a sport. 
116	adjudicated	1	Do I entice you? Do I speak you fair? Or, rather, do I not in plainest truth Tell you I do not nor I cannot love you? 
496	adjudicated	2	Now, fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour Draws on apace: four happy days bring in Another moon; but O! methinks how slow This old moon wanes; she lingers my desires, Like to a step dame, or a dowager Long withering out a young man's revenue. 
251	adjudicated	0	I had no judgment when to her I swore.
105	adjudicated	0	How long within this wood intend you stay?
399	adjudicated	4	O sweet bully Bottom! Thus hath he lost sixpence a day during his life; he could not have 'scaped sixpence a day: an the duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing Pyramus, I'll be hanged; he would have deserved it: sixpence a day in Pyramus, or nothing. 
98	adjudicated	0	What! jealous Oberon. Fairies, skip hence: I have forsworn his bed and company. 
466	adjudicated	1	True; and a goose for his discretion.
111	adjudicated	1	That very time I saw, but thou couldst not, Flying between the cold moon and the earth, Cupid all arm'd: a certain aim he took At a fair vestal throned by the west, And loos'd his love-shaft smartly from his bow, As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts; But I might see young Cupid's fiery shaft Quench'd in the chaste beams of the wat'ry moon, And the imperial votaress passed on, In maiden meditation, fancy-free. Yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell: It fell upon a little western flower, Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound, And maidens call it, Love-in-idleness. Fetch me that flower; the herb I show'd thee once: The juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid Will make or man or woman madly dote Upon the next live creature that it sees. Fetch me this herb; and be thou here again Ere the leviathan can swim a league. 
124	adjudicated	1	I will not stay thy questions: let me go; Or, if thou follow me, do not believe But I shall do thee mischief in the wood. 
436	adjudicated	1	No wonder, my lord: one lion may, when many asses do. Wall. In this same interlude it doth befall That I, one Snout by name, present a wall; And such a wall, as I would have you think, That had in it a crannied hole or chink, Through which the lovers, Pyramus and Thisby, Did whisper often very secretly. This loam, this rough-cast, and this stone doth show That I am that same wall; the truth is so; And this the cranny is, right and sinister, Through which the fearful lovers are to whisper. 
472	adjudicated	1	This lanthorn doth the horned moon present; Myself the man i' the moon do seem to be.
354	adjudicated	2	So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle Gently entwist; the female ivy so Enrings the barky fingers of the elm. O! how I love thee; how I dote on thee!
339	adjudicated	0	Come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed, While I thy amiable cheeks do coy, And stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head, And kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy. 
376	adjudicated	0	Begin these wood-birds but to couple now?
285	adjudicated	11	Do you not jest?
89	adjudicated	1	Enough; hold, or cut bow-strings. 
346	adjudicated	1	Nothing, good mounsieur, but to help Cavalery Cobweb to scratch. I must to the barber's, mounsieur, for methinks I am marvellous hairy about the face; and I am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me, I must scratch. 
96	adjudicated	0	And here my mistress. Would that he were gone!
262	adjudicated	0	Why should he stay, whom love doth press to go? 
281	adjudicated	0	No, no, he'll . . . Seem to break loose; take on, as you would follow, But yet come not: you are a tame man, go! 
222	adjudicated	1	Good Master Mustard-seed, I know your patience well: that same cowardly, giant-like ox-beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house. I promise you, your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now. I desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Mustard-seed. 
183	adjudicated	0	If that may be, than all is well. Come, sit down, every mother's son, and rehearse your parts. Pyramus, you begin: when you have spoken your speech, enter into that brake; and so every one according to his cue. 
425	adjudicated	0	He says they can do nothing in this kind.
443	adjudicated	0	No, in truth, sir, he should not. 'Deceiving me,' is Thisby's cue: she is to enter now, and I am to spy her through the wall. You shall see, it will fall pat as I told you. Yonder she comes. 
309	adjudicated	0	Follow! nay, I'll go with thee, cheek by jole. 
274	adjudicated	1	If she cannot entreat, I can compel. 
155	adjudicated	1	Do not say so, Lysander; say not so. What though he love your Hermia? Lord! what though? Yet Hermia still loves you: then be content. 
393	adjudicated	0	If he come not, then the play is marred: it goes not forward, doth it? 
216	adjudicated	0	I cry your worships mercy, heartily: I beseech your worship's name. 
165	adjudicated	0	By'r lakin, a parlous fear. 
59	adjudicated	3	The raging rocks And shivering shocks Shall break the locks Of prison gates: And Phibbus' car Shall shine from far And make and mar The foolish Fates.
249	adjudicated	1	Why should you think that I should woo in scorn? Scorn and derision never come in tears: Look, when I vow, I weep; and vows so born, In their nativity all truth appears. How can these things in me seem scorn to you, Bearing the badge of faith to prove them true? 
410	adjudicated	2	Accompany your hearts!
267	adjudicated	0	I am amazed at your passionate words. I scorn you not: it seems that you scorn me.
14	adjudicated	0	You have her father's love, Demetrius; Let me have Hermia's: do you marry him. 
201	adjudicated	0	Bless thee, Bottom! bless thee! thou art translated. 
84	adjudicated	0	Why, what you will. 
306	adjudicated	1	Get you gone, you dwarf; You minimus, of hindering knot-grass made; You bead, you acorn! 
129	adjudicated	0	Ay, there it is. 
69	adjudicated	0	No, no; you must play Pyramus; and Flute, you Thisby. 
438	adjudicated	4	It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard discourse, my lord. 
415	adjudicated	0	There is a brief how many sports are ripe; Make choice of which your highness will see first.
379	adjudicated	0	My lord, I shall reply amazedly, Half sleep, half waking: but as yet, I swear, I cannot truly say how I came here; But, as I think,—for truly would I speak, And now I do bethink me, so it is,— I came with Hermia hither: our intent Was to be gone from Athens, where we might, Without the peril of the Athenian law— 
179	adjudicated	0	Why, then may you leave a casement of the great chamber-window, where we play, open; and the moon may shine in at the casement. 
186	adjudicated	9	Thisby, the flowers have odious savours sweet,— 
181	adjudicated	4	You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom? 
145	adjudicated	0	Here is my bed: sleep give thee all his rest!
474	adjudicated	1	He dares not come there for the candle; for, you see, it is already in snuff. 
219	adjudicated	0	Pease-blossom.
80	adjudicated	0	That would hang us, every mother's son. 
109	adjudicated	1	Well, go thy way: thou shalt not from this grove Till I torment thee for this injury. My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou remember'st Since once I sat upon a promontory, And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath, That the rude sea grew civil at her song, And certain stars shot madly from their spheres To hear the sea-maid's music. 
492	adjudicated	1	Come tears, confound; Out, sword, and wound The pap of Pyramus: Ay, that left pap, Where heart doth hop: Thus die I, thus, thus, thus. 
94	adjudicated	3	Either I mistake your shape and making quite, Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite Call'd Robin Goodfellow: are you not he That frights the maidens of the villagery; Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern, And bootless make the breathless housewife churn; And sometime make the drink to bear no barm; Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm? Those that Hobgoblin call you and sweet Puck, You do their work, and they shall have good luck: Are you not he? 
204	adjudicated	0	The finch, the sparrow, and the lark, The plain-song cuckoo gray, Whose note full many a man doth mark, And dares not answer, nay; 
235	adjudicated	0	What's this to my Lysander? where is he? Ah! good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me? 
430	adjudicated	2	This fellow doth not stand upon points.
215	adjudicated	0	Hail!
184	adjudicated	11	What hempen home-spuns have we swaggering here, So near the cradle of the fairy queen? What! a play toward; I'll be an auditor; An actor too perhaps, if I see cause. 
37	adjudicated	1	O! that my prayers could such affection move.
70	adjudicated	0	Well, proceed. 
166	adjudicated	0	I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done. 
450	adjudicated	14	As Shafalus to Procrus, I to you. 
490	adjudicated	0	Beshrew my heart, but I pity the man. 
493	adjudicated	1	Now am I dead, Now am I fled; My soul is in the sky: Tongue, lose thy light! Moon, take thy flight! 
76	adjudicated	0	Have you the lion's part written? pray you, if it be, give it me, for I am slow of study. 
497	adjudicated	1	Hippolyta, I woo'd thee with my sword, And won thy love doing thee injuries; But I will wed thee in another key, With pomp, with triumph, and with revelling. 
391	adjudicated	0	Have you sent to Bottom's house? is he come home yet?
118	adjudicated	0	Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit, For I am sick when I do look on you. 
227	adjudicated	1	My mistress with a monster is in love. Near to her close and consecrated bower, While she was in her dull and sleeping hour, A crew of patches, rude mechanicals, That work for bread upon Athenian stalls, Were met together to rehearse a play Intended for great Theseus' nuptial day. The shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort, Who Pyramus presented in their sport Forsook his scene, and enter'd in a brake, When I did him at this advantage take; An ass's nowl I fixed on his head: Anon his Thisbe must be answered, And forth my mimick comes. When they him spy, As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye, Or russet-pated choughs, many in sort, Rising and cawing at the gun's report, Sever themselves, and madly sweep the sky; So, at his sight, away his fellows fly, And, at our stamp, here o'er and o'er one falls; He murder cries, and help from Athens calls. Their sense thus weak, lost with their fears thus strong, Made senseless things begin to do them wrong; For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch; Some sleeves, some hats, from yielders all things catch. I led them on in this distracted fear, And left sweet Pyramus translated there; When in that moment, so it came to pass, Titania wak'd and straightway lov'd an ass. 
311	adjudicated	1	I will not trust you, I, Nor longer stay in your curst company. Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray, My legs are longer though, to run away. 
498	adjudicated	3	Full of vexation come I, with complaint Against my child, my daughter Hermia. Stand forth, Demetrius. My noble lord, This man hath my consent to marry her. Stand forth, Lysander: and, my gracious duke, This man hath bewitch'd the bosom of my child: Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rimes, And interchang'd love-tokens with my child; Thou hast by moonlight at her window sung, With feigning voice, verses of feigning love; And stol'n the impression of her fantasy With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds, conceits, Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats, messengers Of strong prevailment in unharden'd youth; With cunning hast thou filch'd my daughter's heart; Turn'd her obedience, which is due to me, To stubborn harshness. And, my gracious duke, Be it so she will not here before your Grace Consent to marry with Demetrius, I beg the ancient privilege of Athens, As she is mine, I may dispose of her; Which shall be either to this gentleman, Or to her death, according to our law Immediately provided in that case. 
453	adjudicated	0	Wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway?
55	adjudicated	0	You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus. 
85	adjudicated	0	I will discharge it in either your straw-colour beard, your orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain beard, or your French-crown colour beard, your perfect yellow. 
418	adjudicated	0	What are they that do play it?
189	adjudicated	0	A stranger Pyramus than e'er play'd here!
140	adjudicated	0	One turf shall serve as pillow for us both; One heart, one bed, two bosoms, and one troth. 
422	adjudicated	1	I will hear that play; For never anything can be amiss, When simpleness and duty tender it. Go, bring them in: and take your places, ladies. 
345	adjudicated	1	What's your will?
6	adjudicated	0	In himself he is; But, in this kind, wanting your father's voice, The other must be held the worthier. 
499	adjudicated	1	Captain of our fairy band, Helena is here at hand, And the youth, mistook by me, Pleading for a lover's fee. Shall we their fond pageant see? Lord, what fools these mortals be! 
93	adjudicated	12	The king doth keep his revels here to-night. Take heed the queen come not within his sight; For Oberon is passing fell and wrath, Because that she as her attendant hath A lovely boy, stol'n from an Indian king; She never had so sweet a changeling; And jealous Oberon would have the child Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild; But she, perforce, withholds the loved boy, Crowns him with flowers, and makes him all her joy. And now they never meet in grove, or green, By fountain clear, or spangled starlight sheen, But they do square; that all their elves, for fear, Creep into acorn-cups and hide them there. 
208	adjudicated	2	Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
259	adjudicated	0	Helen, it is not so. 
146	adjudicated	0	With half that wish the wisher's eyes be press'd!
382	adjudicated	0	Fair lovers, you are fortunately met: Of this discourse we more will hear anon. Egeus, I will overbear your will, For in the temple, by and by, with us, These couples shall eternally be knit: And, for the morning now is something worn, Our purpos'd hunting shall be set aside. Away with us, to Athens: three and three, We'll hold a feast in great solemnity. Come, Hippolyta. 
44	adjudicated	1	And in the wood, where often you and I Upon faint primrose-beds were wont to lie, Emptying our bosoms of their counsel sweet, There my Lysander and myself shall meet; And thence from Athens turn away our eyes, To seek new friends and stranger companies. Farewell, sweet playfellow: pray thou for us; And good luck grant thee thy Demetrius! Keep word, Lysander: we must starve our sight From lovers' food till morrow deep midnight. 
32	adjudicated	0	God speed fair Helena! Whither away?
243	adjudicated	1	What hast thou done? thou hast mistaken quite, And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight: Of thy misprision must perforce ensue Some true-love turn'd, and not a false turn'd true. 
226	adjudicated	0	What night-rule now about this haunted grove?
386	adjudicated	0	Are you sure That we are awake? It seems to me That yet we sleep, we dream. Do you not think The duke was here, and bid us follow him? 
11	adjudicated	1	So will I grow, so live, so die, my lord, Ere I will yield my virgin patent up Unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke My soul consents not to give sovereignty. 
460	adjudicated	0	It must be your imagination then, and not theirs. 
290	adjudicated	0	What! can you do me greater harm than hate? Hate me! wherefore? O me! what news, my love? Am not I Hermia? Are not you Lysander? I am as fair now as I was erewhile. Since night you lov'd me; yet, since night you left me: Why, then you left me,—O, the gods forbid!— In earnest, shall I say? 
121	adjudicated	1	Your virtue is my privilege: for that It is not night when I do see your face, Therefore I think I am not in the night; Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company, For you in my respect are all the world: Then how can it be said I am alone, When all the world is here to look on me? 
29	adjudicated	0	A good persuasion: therefore, hear me, Hermia. I have a widow aunt, a dowager Of great revenue, and she hath no child: From Athens is her house remote seven leagues; And she respects me as her only son. There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee, And to that place the sharp Athenian law Cannot pursue us. If thou lov'st me then, Steal forth thy father's house to-morrow night, And in the wood, a league without the town, Where I did meet thee once with Helena, To do observance to a morn of May, There will I stay for thee. 
320	adjudicated	0	Where art thou, proud Demetrius? speak thou now. 
103	adjudicated	11	Do you amend it then; it lies in you. Why should Titania cross her Oberon? I do but beg a little changeling boy, To be my henchman. 
207	adjudicated	0	Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason for that: and yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company together now-a-days. The more the pity, that some honest neighbours will not make them friends. Nay, I can gleek upon occasion. 
234	adjudicated	2	So should the murder'd look, and so should I, Pierc'd through the heart with your stern cruelty; Yet you, the murderer, look as bright, as clear, As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere. 
238	adjudicated	0	You spend your passion on a mispris'd mood: I am not guilty of Lysander's blood, Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell. 
245	adjudicated	2	About the wood go swifter than the wind, And Helena of Athens look thou find: All fancy-sick she is, and pale of cheer With sighs of love, that cost the fresh blood dear. By some illusion see thou bring her here: I'll charm his eyes against she do appear. 
163	adjudicated	0	What sayst thou, bully Bottom? 
225	adjudicated	1	How now, mad spirit! 
248	adjudicated	0	Then will two at once woo one; That must needs be sport alone; And those things do best please me That befall preposterously.
115	adjudicated	1	You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant: But yet you draw not iron, for my heart Is true as steel: leave you your power to draw, And I shall have no power to follow you. 
45	adjudicated	0	As you on him, Demetrius dote on you! 
340	adjudicated	0	Where's Pease-blossom?
130	adjudicated	0	I pray thee, give it me. I know a bank whereon the wild thyme blows, Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine, With sweet musk-roses, and with eglantine: There sleeps Titania some time of the night, Lull'd in these flowers with dances and delight; And there the snake throws her enamell'd skin, Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in: And with the juice of this I'll streak her eyes, And make her full of hateful fantasies. Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove: A sweet Athenian lady is in love With a disdainful youth: anoint his eyes; But do it when the next thing he espies May be the lady. Thou shalt know the man By the Athenian garments he hath on. Effect it with some care, that he may prove More fond on her than she upon her love. And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow. 
473	adjudicated	1	This is the greatest error of all the rest. The man should be put into the lanthorn: how is it else the man i' the moon?
61	adjudicated	0	Francis Flute, the bellows-mender. 
83	adjudicated	0	Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best to play it in? 
64	adjudicated	1	What is Thisby? a wandering knight?
151	adjudicated	0	O! wilt thou darkling leave me? do not so.
288	adjudicated	1	I would I had your bond, for I perceive A weak bond holds you: I'll not trust your word. 
10	adjudicated	3	Either to die the death, or to abjure For ever the society of men. Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires; Know of your youth, examine well your blood, Whe'r, if you yield not to your father's choice, You can endure the livery of a nun, For aye to be in shady cloister mew'd, To live a barren sister all your life, Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon. Thrice blessed they that master so their blood, To undergo such maiden pilgrimage; But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd, Than that which withering on the virgin thorn Grows, lives, and dies, in single blessedness. 
220	adjudicated	0	I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your mother, and to Master Peascod, your father. Good Master Pease-blossom, I shall desire you of more acquaintance too. Your name, I beseech you, sir? 
426	adjudicated	1	The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing. Our sport shall be to take what they mistake: And what poor duty cannot do, noble respect Takes it in might, not merit. Where I have come, great clerks have purposed To greet me with premeditated welcomes; Where I have seen them shiver and look pale, Make periods in the midst of sentences, Throttle their practis'd accent in their fears, And, in conclusion, dumbly have broke off, Not paying me a welcome. Trust me, sweet, Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome; And in the modesty of fearful duty I read as much as from the rattling tongue Of saucy and audacious eloquence. Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity In least speak most, to my capacity. 
72	adjudicated	0	Here, Peter Quince. 
104	adjudicated	1	Set your heart at rest; The fairy land buys not the child of me. His mother was a votaress of my order: And, in the spiced Indian air, by night, Full often hath she gossip'd by my side, And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands, Marking the embarked traders on the flood; When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind; Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait Following,—her womb then rich with my young squire,— Would imitate, and sail upon the land, To fetch me trifles, and return again, As from a voyage, rich with merchandise. But she, being mortal, of that boy did die; And for her sake I do rear up her boy, And for her sake I will not part with him. 
298	adjudicated	0	Why, get you gone. Who is't that hinders you? 
286	adjudicated	11	Yes, sooth; and so do you. 
144	adjudicated	0	Amen, amen, to that fair prayer, say I; And then end life when I end loyalty! 
313	adjudicated	0	This is thy negligence: still thou mistak'st, Or else commit'st thy knaveries wilfully. 
325	adjudicated	1	Thou coward! art thou bragging to the stars, Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars, And wilt not come? Come, recreant; come, thou child; I'll whip thee with a rod: he is defil'd That draws a sword on thee. 
196	adjudicated	1	O monstrous! O strange! we are haunted. Pray, masters! fly, masters!—Help! 
344	adjudicated	0	Give me your neaf, Mounsieur Mustard-seed. Pray you, leave your curtsy, good mounsieur. 
106	adjudicated	0	Perchance, till after Theseus' weddingday. If you will patiently dance in our round, And see our moonlight revels, go with us; If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts. 
250	adjudicated	3	You do advance your cunning more and more. When truth kills truth, O devilish-holy fray! These vows are Hermia's: will you give her o'er? Weigh oath with oath, and you will nothing weigh: Your vows, to her and me, put in two scales, Will even weigh, and both as light as tales. 
202	adjudicated	1	I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me; to fright me, if they could. But I will not stir from this place, do what they can: I will walk up and down here, and I will sing, that they shall hear I am not afraid. 
402	adjudicated	0	Masters, I am to discourse wonders: but ask me not what; for if I tell you, I am no true Athenian. I will tell you everything, right as it fell out. 
240	adjudicated	0	An if I could, what should I get therefore? 
62	adjudicated	0	Here, Peter Quince. 
439	adjudicated	0	Pyramus draws near the wall: silence!
224	adjudicated	0	I wonder if Titania be awak'd; Then, what it was that next came in her eye, Which she must dote on in extremity. Here comes my messenger. 
482	adjudicated	0	Well run, Thisbe. 
374	adjudicated	0	Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns. 
107	adjudicated	0	Give me that boy, and I will go with thee. 
108	adjudicated	0	Not for thy fairy kingdom. Fairies, away! We shall chide downright, if I longer stay. 
428	adjudicated	0	Let him approach.
299	adjudicated	1	A foolish heart, that I leave here behind. 
255	adjudicated	13	O spite! O hell! I see you all are bent To set against me for your merriment: If you were civil and knew courtesy, You would not do me thus much injury. Can you not hate me, as I know you do, But you must join in souls to mock me too? If you were men, as men you are in show, You would not use a gentle lady so; To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts, When I am sure you hate me with your hearts. You both are rivals, and love Hermia, And now both rivals, to mock Helena: A trim exploit, a manly enterprise, To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes With your derision! none of noble sort Would so offend a virgin, and extort A poor soul's patience, all to make you sport. 
15	adjudicated	0	Scornful Lysander! true, he hath my love, And what is mine my love shall render him; And she is mine, and all my right of her I do estate unto Demetrius. 
67	adjudicated	0	That's all one: you shall play it in a mask, and you may speak as small as you will. 
500	adjudicated	0	Stand aside: the noise they make Will cause Demetrius to awake.30	adjudicated	14	My good Lysander! I swear to thee by Cupid's strongest bow, By his best arrow with the golden head, By the simplicity of Venus' doves, By that which knitteth souls and prospers loves, And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage queen, When the false Troyan under sail was seen, By all the vows that ever men have broke,— In number more than ever women spoke,— In that same place thou hast appointed me, To-morrow truly will I meet with thee. 
380	adjudicated	0	Enough, enough, my lord; you have enough: I beg the law, the law, upon his head. They would have stol'n away; they would, Demetrius, Thereby to have defeated you and me; You of your wife, and me of my consent, Of my consent that she should be your wife. 
269	adjudicated	0	I understand not what you mean by this.
38	adjudicated	0	The more I hate, the more he follows me. 
213	adjudicated	3	Be kind and courteous to this gentleman; Hop in his walks, and gambol in his eyes; Feed him with apricocks and dewberries, With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries. The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees, And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs, And light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes, To have my love to bed, and to arise; And pluck the wings from painted butterflies To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes: Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies. 
355	adjudicated	3	Her dotage now I do begin to pity: For, meeting her of late behind the wood, Seeking sweet favours for this hateful fool, I did upbraid her and fall out with her; For she his hairy temples then had rounded With coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers; And that same dew, which sometime on the buds Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls, Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail. When I had at my pleasure taunted her, And she in mild terms begg'd my patience, I then did ask of her her changeling child; Which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent To bear him to my bower in fairy land. And now I have the boy, I will undo This hateful imperfection of her eyes: And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp From off the head of this Athenian swain, That he, awaking when the other do, May all to Athens back again repair, And think no more of this night's accidents But as the fierce vexation of a dream. But first I will release the fairy queen. 
127	adjudicated	11	Fare thee well, nymph: ere he do leave this grove, Thou shalt fly him, and he shall seek thy love. 
81	adjudicated	2	I grant you, friends, if that you should fright the ladies out of their wits, they would have no more discretion but to hang us; but I will aggravate my voice so that I will roar you as gently as any sucking dove; I will roar you as 'twere any nightingale. 
199	adjudicated	0	O Bottom, thou art changed! what do I see on thee? 
263	adjudicated	3	What love could press Lysander from my side?
420	adjudicated	0	And we will hear it.
99	adjudicated	0	Tarry, rash wanton! am not I thy lord? 
337	adjudicated	0	On the ground Sleep sound: I'll apply To your eye, Gentle lover, remedy 
477	adjudicated	0	Proceed, Moon. 
432	adjudicated	2	Indeed he hath played on his prologue like a child on a recorder; a sound, but not in government. 
187	adjudicated	7	Odorous, odorous. 
395	adjudicated	0	No; he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in Athens.
312	adjudicated	0	I am amaz'd, and know not what to say. 
175	adjudicated	12	Well, it shall be so. But there is two hard things, that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for, you know, Pyramus and Thisby meet by moonlight. 
387	adjudicated	0	Yea; and my father.
123	adjudicated	13	The wildest hath not such a heart as you. Run when you will, the story shall be chang'd; Apollo flies, and Daphne holds the chase; The dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind Makes speed to catch the tiger: bootless speed, When cowardice pursues and valour flies. 
164	adjudicated	4	There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisby that will never please. First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself, which the ladies cannot abide. How answer you that? 
326	adjudicated	0	Yea, art thou there? 
324	adjudicated	1	Lysander! speak again. Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled? Speak! In some bush? Where dost thou hide thy head? 
331	adjudicated	0	Abide me, if thou dar'st; for well I wot Thou runn'st before me, shifting every place, And dar'st not stand, nor look me in the face. Where art thou now? 
43	adjudicated	3	Helen, to you our minds we will unfold. To-morrow night, when Phœbe doth behold Her silver visage in the wat'ry glass, Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass,— A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal,— Through Athens' gates have we devis'd to steal. 
160	adjudicated	0	Are we all met?
323	adjudicated	0	Follow me, then, To plainer ground. 
336	adjudicated	4	Never so weary, never so in woe, Bedabbled with the dew and torn with briers, I can no further crawl, no further go; My legs can keep no pace with my desires. Here will I rest me till the break of day. Heavens shield Lysander, if they mean a fray! 
367	adjudicated	0	Come, my lord; and in our flight Tell me how it came this night That I sleeping here was found With these mortals on the ground. 
330	adjudicated	0	Ho! ho! ho! Coward, why com'st thou not? 
128	adjudicated	0	Hast thou the flower there? Welcome, wanderer. 
389	adjudicated	0	And he did bid us follow to the temple.
180	adjudicated	0	Ay; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a lanthorn, and say he comes to disfigure, or to present, the person of Moonshine. Then, there is another thing: we must have a wall in the great chamber; for Pyramus and Thisby, says the story, did talk through the chink of a wall. 
57	adjudicated	0	A lover, that kills himself most gallantly for love. 
23	adjudicated	0	Or else misgraffed in respect of years,— 
8	adjudicated	1	Rather your eyes must with his judgment look.
97	adjudicated	0	Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania. 
277	adjudicated	0	If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too. 
470	adjudicated	1	He should have worn the horns on his head.
308	adjudicated	0	Now she holds me not; Now follow, if thou dar'st, to try whose right, Or thine or mine, is most in Helena. 
400	adjudicated	0	Where are these lads? where are these hearts?
334	adjudicated	3	O weary night! O long and tedious night, Abate thy hours! shine, comforts, from the east! That I may back to Athens by daylight, From these that my poor company detest: And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye, Steal me awhile from mine own company. 
51	adjudicated	11	Marry, our play is, The most lamentable comedy, and most cruel death of Pyramus and Thisby. 
280	adjudicated	1	Away, you Ethiop! 
403	adjudicated	0	Let us hear, sweet Bottom. 
68	adjudicated	8	An I may hide my face, let me play Thisby too. I'll speak in a monstrous little voice, 'Thisne, Thisne!' 'Ah, Pyramus, my lover dear; thy Thisby dear, and lady dear!' 
449	adjudicated	14	Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true.
398	adjudicated	4	Masters, the duke is coming from the temple, and there is two or three lords and ladies more married: if our sport had gone forward, we had all been made men. 
54	adjudicated	0	Ready. Name what part I am for, and proceed. 
279	adjudicated	0	Lysander, whereto tends all this? 
392	adjudicated	0	He cannot be heard of. Out of doubt he is transported.
244	adjudicated	4	Then fate o'er-rules, that, one man holding troth, A million fail, confounding oath on oath. 
412	adjudicated	1	Come now; what masques, what dances shall we have, To wear away this long age of three hours Between our after-supper and bed-time? Where is our usual manager of mirth? What revels are in hand? Is there no play, To ease the anguish of a torturing hour? Call Philostrate. 
182	adjudicated	14	Some man or other must present Wall; and let him have some plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast about him, to signify wall; and let him hold his fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus and Thisby whisper. 
154	adjudicated	1	Transparent Helena! Nature shows art, That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart. Where is Demetrius? O! how fit a word Is that vile name to perish on my sword. 
188	adjudicated	3	—odours savours sweet: So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear. But hark, a voice! stay thou but here awhile, And by and by I will to thee appear. 
440	adjudicated	3	O grim-look'd night! O night with hue so black! O night, which ever art when day is not! O night! O night! alack, alack, alack! I fear my Thisby's promise is forgot. And thou, O wall! O sweet, O lovely wall! That stand'st between her father's ground and mine; Thou wall, O wall! O sweet, and lovely wall! Show me thy chink to blink through with mine eyne. 
131	adjudicated	0	Fear not, my lord, your servant shall do so. 
385	adjudicated	2	So methinks: And I have found Demetrius, like a jewel, Mine own, and not mine own. 
119	adjudicated	0	And I am sick when I look not on you.
176	adjudicated	8	Doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
148	adjudicated	0	Churl, upon thy eyes I throw All the power this charm doth owe. When thou wak'st, let love forbid Sleep his seat on thy eyelid: So awake when I am gone; For I must now to Oberon. 
424	adjudicated	0	Why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing. 
455	adjudicated	1	Thus have I, Wall, my part discharged so; And, being done, thus Wall away doth go. 
